This document contains information about the Vastaya

Vastaya

Biological classification
Designation
Sapient
Parent Species
Human
Vastayashai'rei
Subspecies
Besheb
Canghapi
Chyra
Fauhwoon
Juloah
Kepthalla
Khonlui
Kiilash
Lhotlan
Makara
Marai
Oovi-Kat
Ophelis
Ottrani
Raylu
Shimon
Skard
Sodjoko
Strig
Vesani
Vlotah
Vastayan-Human hybrids
Many other subspecies
Physical characteristics
Hair color(s)
Various hair colors in which color has been altered by magical means.
Feather color(s)
Various feather colors in which color has been altered by magical means.
Eye color(s)
Various eye colors in which color has been altered by magical means.
Distinctions
Highly Adaptable
Magically Dependent
Advanced Tool Users
Average lifespan
Centuries
Sociocultural characteristics
Status
Extant
Language(s)
Runeterran (All known languages)
Habitat(s)
Temperate Climate
Magical Environment
Settlements (Cities, Villages, Tribes)
Diet
Omnivorous
Place of origin
Ionia
Currently inhabited place(s)
Physical Realm
Spirit Realm (Rare instances)
Universe(s)
 Runeterra Prime

 The Vastaya are a chimeric race of Runeterra that are the weaker magical descendants from enlightened mortals that took the power of the spirit realm into themselves known as the Vastayashai'rei. From the ferocious, bestial power of  Rengar to the foxlike allure of  Ahri, vastaya can look considerably different from one another, but they all share animal and human characteristics.

 Lore
The Vastaya
In an age lost to myth, the harmony of the First Lands was shattered by war between mortals and a race of titans that had come from the skies above. Calling upon the wisdom of their ancestors, the most enlightened mortals took the power of the spirit realm into themselves, becoming Vastayashai’rei—deathless shapechangers who could wield the natural world itself as a weapon.

The titans were eventually defeated, and the Vastayashai’rei were hailed as the heroes of the age. Even so, they refused to put themselves above their mortal kin, choosing instead to live among them as equals.

Their descendants were known as the vastaya. These were mystical, chimeric beings, neither mortal nor truly immortal, and greatly attuned to the magic of Runeterra.

In time, as the balance between realms was restored, the power of the Vastayashai’rei began to wane, and the vastaya left to form their own tribes. They proudly took their names from those who had defeated the titans—noble Kiila, dutiful Chyr, cunning Lhotl, and countless more besides. For thousands of years, the vastaya have sought to uphold their own spiritual legacy, even when it would bring them into conflict with one another.

More recently, as humans have continued to disrupt the currents of magic in the world, relations with the tribes have soured. No new vastaya have been born in several mortal lifetimes, and it could be that this ancient race now perceives another time of great change approaching…

Vastayan Champions
Ahri
Nami
Neeko
Rakan
Rengar
Wukong
Xayah
Champions with Vastayan Ancestery
 Nidalee, a human in the Shuriman Jungle who's vastayan ancestry grants her shapeshifting abilities.[1]
 Sett, the son of a vastayan mother and a Human  Noxian father.
 Udyr, a  Freljordian Spirit-Walker with some vastayan heritage.[1]
Other Vastaya
Oovi-Kat
 Daani, an Oovi-Kat student of the  Ravenbloom Conservatory.
Shimon
 Ting, a Shimon disciple of the  Wuju Order.
Unknown Tribe
 Tail-Cloak Matriarch, a vastayan lord protecting the God-Willow seedling.
 Gai'sh, a vastayan lord protecting the God-Willow seedling.
 Windsinger, a vastayan lord protecting the God-Willow seedling.
 Lui, a disciple of the  Wuju Order.
 Yusari, a pupil of the  Shadow Order.
 Rivershaper
 Greenglade Caretaker
Other Related Champions
 Akali gets additions to her impressive dragon tattoo from the vastaya artist named Bo'lii.
 Diana is the Aspect of the Moon that  Nami is searching for to help her people.
 Ezreal unknowingly encountered  Neeko during his search for The Elixir of Uloa.
 Gnar attacked  Rengar in his Mega form during the hunter's recent hunts.
 Irelia fought alongside vastaya, and against other vastayan tribes allied with Noxus during the Ionian invasion.
 Ivern the Cruel attacked the God-Willow, a sacred site of the Vastayashai'rei, leading to his eventual transformation into the Green-Father.
 Jax encountered and befriended the shepherd  Chaska during one of his adventures.
 Kha'Zix attacked and injured  Rengar in their previous skirmishes.
 Lillia resembles the Vastaya, but she is a purely unique being born from the dreams of the Dream Tree.
 Master Yi trains  Wukong in the art of Wuju.
 Soraka is a well known and respected seer among the vastaya.
 Swain fought against many vastaya during his campaigns in the Ionian invasion.
 Zed has frequently attacked vastayan lands and taken some as prisoners.
History
Fauhwoon Vastaya overlooking magic-harvesting Quinlons.

The vastaya's origins can be traced back to a hidden corner of Ionia. The mortals lived in harmony with nature until a race of titans came from the skies and waged war against them. Most enlightened mortals taken the power of the spirit realm into themselves becoming the Vastayashai'rei to defeat the titans. Initial generations of Vastayashai'rei were deathless and held imm kin, their future descendants would start mixing ortal kin and be known as the vastaya - a blanket classification for any number of species of chimeric creatures. Over time, the varied offshoots began to settle in different regions and naturally adopted different forms -  simian,  avian, even  piscine - according to the creatures which most embodied their strongest characteristics.

Some of the Vastayashai'rei resided in the sacred grove of Omikayalan, the "Heart of the World". In its center stood the God-Willow. This massive tree, dripping with long gossamer leaves that shimmered with golden-green light, was of immense importance to both human Ionians and the vastayan people of the continent, which guarded the tree from anyone who wished it harm. Unfortunately, the tree was destroyed by an invading war party from the Freljord, its leader transformed by its natural energy into the being known as the  Green-Father.

As time wore on and the balance between realms was restored, the Vastayashai'rei began to wane and the vastayan bloodline spread throughout Runeterra, an interesting genetic aberration occurred: certain humans with very small amounts of vastayan heritage gained the ability to shapeshift. From the frozen Freljord to the darkest jungles of Runeterra, these shapeshifters can't maintain their animalistic forms for long, yet are still capable of harnessing some of their ancestral magic and change their shape.

There is a very old treaty between specific tribes of Ionian vastaya and the humans, which deals with the sharing of natural magic. Over the last decade post-Noxian Invasion, the humans have begun to abuse their share, and as a result, the vastaya have become increasingly unhappy and uncertain with the way humans are using magic. This has caused a lot of concern from the Vastaya as well as mistrust between the races. For instance, extremist groups like the  Order of Shadows have begun consolidating power for their own purposes. The vastaya are, understandably, not pleased by this.

Physiology
For more information, see Eduard Santangelo's Vastaya Field Journal.
Vastaya are a group of sexually dimorphic races of various shapes and sizes. Their animalistic appearance depends on the location in which they adapted, and their animal spirit. However, disregarding distinctions between the tribes of land, sea, and air, there are three types of vastaya:

"Animal-like" vastaya resemble other animals, but are bipedal or otherwise mildly humanoid.
"Human-like" vastaya closely resemble humans, especially in terms of facial features, but still retain a modest level of animalistic elements: for instance, feline or foxlike ears, tails, or feathers.
Shapeshifters retain either a human or animal appearance of their choosing, but they are able to shapeshift in and out of each form.
Each type of vastaya greatly differs from the others in appearance and abilities, but they are all in tune with the natural magic of Runeterra to some degree. Vastaya of different tribes can reproduce. Tribes like the Sodjoko are made up of various tribes coming together. What a child would look like would depend on the parents, the nature and amount of magic the child grew up near, the customs of the tribe it grew up in, and the child’s own personality - especially its connection to the various animal spirits. Vastaya with egg-laying animal spirits do not lay eggs.

While most vastaya need a supply of magic to thrive - they don’t need massive amounts of it and can go extended periods without magic. Vastaya tend to settle near the “springs” where magic comes into our world or near the invisible “streams” of magic that flow from these springs and snake through the world (comparable to ley lines).

Most Vastaya have some ability to change shape. Most arrive a shape that is comfortable, reflects the animal spirits connected to their tribe, and their own personality (needs wants). They can change shape depending upon the availability of magic, amount of time required for the change, and in the depth of their connection to their ancestry (Vastayashairei). So it might take  Rakan a few minutes to change the color of his cloak-- or a few hours to give himself stylish new horns, while a radical change that might take him three days, totally exhaust him, and be hard for him to hold for more than a few minutes... But he will always be kinda flashy looking -- because subconsciously he wants attention, and vaguely griffon like because that is what his family and tribe reflects.  Neeko is better, faster at shapeshifting than other Vastaya types thanks to her more powerful connection to magic and being attracted to an animal spirit that is good at changing. Neeko could change her appearance dramatically in 2 seconds and hold it for several days.[2] The vastaya generally avoid looking purely human or animalistic because it's uncomfortable and not ideal for fighting. ( Xayah would find having a human foot about the same comfort and ease as you would wearing 8 inch platform heels, two sizes two small. You could do it, but you wouldn't want to fight those shoes and you wouldn't want to wear them for long either). But this does mean they excell at spying and intrigue.[3]

The race ages far more slowly and has far longer life spans than humans. Some have been said to live for thousands of years, while others, rumors and legends say, might be immortal. All true Vastaya individuals are at least about 180 years old.[4] This is due to the fact that they spend most of their lives in places where time is more "fickle".[5] Hybrids of Vastaya and human as well as their far-flung descendants may not share this trait.

Sub-species
Vastayan Taxonomy

There are three main vastayan tribes (sea, landwalker, and sky) each with their own sub-tribes:

Tribes of the Sea
Marai (fishlike; mermen; includes  Nami)
Makara ("carnivorous, ever-smiling") likely crocodilian
Raylu
Landwalker Tribes
Vesani (foxlike; only known members being  Ahri and presumably the  Tail-Cloak Matriarch)
Unknown humanoid wolverines (includes  Sett's mother)
Unknown tribe with feline ears (mentioned in A Fair Trade)
Unknown tribe with furry and spiced-leathered neck (includes Hirin in A Fair Trade)
Fauhwoon (goatlike)
Juloah (notable similarities to Lhotlan, but they are hairy rather than feathered and have horns)
Kiilash (most notable member being  Rengar)
Khonlui ("Rhinobears?")
Ophelis ("charming")
Ottrani (goatlike;  Illi,  Lidari,  Hakan,  Vin, and  Grandfather Rumul)
Oovi-Kat (originally chameleonlike; currently has no common trait, but is led by  Neeko)
Lhotlan (birdlike; most notable members are  Rakan and  Xayah)
Kepthalla (feathered, long heads, and from their crown grew great horns).
Vlotah (lithe and narrow; massive shoulders that protrude vertically from their backs like wings of bone. Iridescent fur that glitters in the light, all over their body; creamy-white faces, vaguely feline in aspect).
Shimon (monkeylike; includes  Wukong and  Ting)
Sodjoko
Tribes of the Sky
Besheb
Chyra ("the Silent Chorus")
Strig ("Reptilian butterflies!")
Numerous other currently unknown tribes
Unknown
Skard (from Silence for the Damned)
Canghapi (Temple of Lily and Lotus)


Culture
Not much is known about their culture due to the mysterious nature of this race. However, we do know that many significant acts (like reproduction) involve heavy use of magic.

The Vastayan culture's relationship and marriage rituals are somewhat different than ours-- in part because magic is literally a part of them and their landscape. Their culture is big on declarations. Symbolically when you declare something it becomes true-- but with the magic the vastayan's use-- those sort of declarations also form a weak charm. Reinvoking it maintains its status and makes others aware. From an American perspective  Xayah and  Rakan are not married or even engaged, and would self-describe as "a couple." --But for a Vastaya declaring someone your boyfriend/girlfriend is a much bigger deal than for Americans. It means you are allowing your magics to entwine.[6]

Some vastaya tribes have a leader, or a hierarchy, but not uniformly, and not across the entire species.

Certain tribes, like that of the Ionian wolverine-like vastayan which  Sett's mother hailed from, consider having children with non-vastayan a taboo, and expel those violating the norm.

The Marai vastaya have cultural ties with Mount Targon. The Moonstone protects its people from Voidborn, which come from the dark depths of the Guardian's Sea. However, the moonstone's energy needs to be replenished over time, so a Tidecaller of each generation is tasked to retrieve a new one from the contemporary vessel for the Targonian Aspect of the Moon.

The Kiilash vastaya reside in Shurima. Their entire society revolves around the honor and glory of the hunt. Due to Shurima having a wide infestation of Voidborn creatures, the Killash see them as one of the most venerated and sought after prey.

The Lhotlan vastaya have cultural and existential ties with Ionia. Being one of the oldest Vastayan tribes in existence, they have deep ties with their ancestral roots and protect their cultural heritage from the ever encroaching human population of the continent.

The Shimon vastaya reside in Ionia. These apelike Vastaya are a wise, cautious people, and as pacifists, chose to build their society away from landwalkers, cultivating their society atop the tallest trees in Ionia. The Shimon see life as an evolutionary climb to wisdom, thus upon death, the Shimon believe they become stones, returning to the soil to begin the climb of life again.

The Oovi-Kat looked at the shedding tails as milestones in maturity, like birthdays. This does not occur annually, but is linked to growth in the spiritual realm.[7]

Language
Vastaya speak their own language, linguistically unrelated to various languages spoken by humans:

Vastayan basic word-order is subject-object-verb.
Vastayan is a predominantly agglutinative language, which forms words by combining morphemes, yet the morphemes often remain unchanged; e.g. vi "wild" & om "magic" becomes vi-om "wild-magic".
Vastayan has at least two grammatical genders : masculine & feminine.
Interestingly, Vastayan grammar allows grammatical tenses to be affixed onto pronominal subjects, just like many real-life languages.
Just as each human language consists of many dialects, so does Vastayan language: for instance, the Lhotlan tribe of  Rakan and  Xayah speak the Baraashi dialect[8]; meanwhile,  Neeko speaks her Oovi-Kat tribe's ancient dialect.

Vastaya Baraashi dialect (Lhotlan Tribe; created using real-life Finnish and Arabic elements as its basis)
Baasi - I (future tense).
Eli, Ella - Love (masculine, feminine).
         Example of a Vastayan conversation.
Faash - They (present tense).
Ighilya - Great Grandmother.
Iminha - Little One.
Mi - My.
Mieli, Miella - My Love (masculine, feminine).
   Mu'takl - A slang for "Blood traitor".
Na - To not be.
Om - Magic.
   Ouulavaash - Farewell.
Soura - To Gather.
   Taitah be tervaash - Rest in peace/well.
Tann - Here.
Va'h - To be (present tense).
Vastaya - Vastaya (the people).
Vi - Wild.
Vi-om - Wild-magic.
Oovi-Kat dialect (ancient Vastayashai'rei (?))
 Sho’ma - spiritual essence
Co-'om Se-Henna - friends (compound; "we smile forever" (?))
Fa Hasici! - I like you! (in a good way)

Trivia
In-universe, the appellation Vastaya means simply "[the] people" & is shortened from their supernatural ancestors' endonym Vastayashai'rei.
Some Vastayan tribal names originate from those who have defeated the titans such as noble Kiila (Kiilash), dutiful Chyr (Chyra), cunning Lhotl (Lhotlan)
Other tribal names might've originated, instead, from human languages, due to Vastayans' partial human ancestry:
Makara < Dravidian *mokaray "crocodile" < *mo(ṅ)k(u)- "devour"[9]; Marai < PIE móri "sea", Ophelis < *h₃bʰel- "help" or h₁ógʷʰis "snake", Ottrani < udrós "otter", Fauhwoon < *bʰh₂eu-no-s "gracious one", etc.
Unlike other pure Vastaya who are at least older than 180 years (including  Neeko)[10],  Sett is born less than 30 years ago.[11]
Vastaya resemble yordles in the sense that both are animalistic in appearance and both have a strong connection to magic.
 Xayah is annoyed that humans mistakenly label yordles as vastayan.
The true existence and fate of the vastaya were unknown to mainland scholars until an explorer from Piltover, Eduard Santangelo, chronicled his findings of this mysterious race during his expedition to Ionia. Upon first encountering them, he coined the term 'Phantasma', but later adopted the local name for them.
Santangelo mentions examples of vastaya ranging "from the winged humanoids of Ionia or the sporadically-limbed sandshufflers of Shurima, to the Freljordian scaled manatee with a look of perpetual discomfort on its face."
Some champions have animal like features but are not Vastaya.
 Cassiopeia is a human who was transformed into a half snake creature by her curse.
 Twitch is a plague rat that was transformed by chemical waste.
 Warwick's chemtech transformation may have been inspired by the Vastaya and their chimeric existence (which  Singed might have discovered when participating in Noxus' Ionian Campaign).
On Summoner's Rift, the red team's shopkeeper may be a vastaya.
Progeny of vastaya and human parentage are not considered true vastaya, but vastayan heritage does grant some form of shapeshifting ability.[1]
During the war with Noxus, certain vastaya tribes allied with the invaders, looking for a better deal.

