This document contains information about the Runeterra Multiverse. 

This link is the source: https://leagueoflegends.fandom.com/wiki/Multiverse

The Multiverse, also sometimes referred to as The Omniverse, is an expansive and intricate network of different parallel universes that exists beyond the boundaries of their respective universe. The Multiverse is based on Chaos Theory, meaning that small changes can cause universes to diverge and create a multitude of unique and separate realities. Some individuals are able to break these boundaries by going "out of Time" such as Ekko, Zilean, users of Chrono technology, etc.

Lore
Multiversal Time Warping
Multiversal Time Warping refers to the phenomenon of transitioning or moving from one universe to another within the Multiverse. Despite such occurrences being relatively rare, some entities were able to control the chaotic energies of the Multiverse and are able to traverse it at will.

Dark Star Invasion
The Galaxies 2020 Event Prestige Points profileicon Dark Star is an unknown cosmic entity that seeks to bring the destruction of the Multiverse. It corrupts and assimilates other celestial entities, turning them into its agents known as "Corruptants". These entities, who were once benevolent cosmic beings, become twisted and are driven to aid the Dark Star in its destruction of the Multiverse. Since its inception, it has seemingly already left its mark on multiple universes:

At some point in time within the Odyssey universe, a Corruptant known as Rhaast, warped from  Event Horizon universe through the Ora Gate and was sealed into an alien scythe afterwards. For untold eons, he would be cast adrift across the farthest edge of space until Odyssey Kayn found him. He now seeks the Ora Gate in order to bring the rest of the Dark Star to the Odyssey universe in order to devour it. At some point Star Nemesis Morgana became corrupted by the "Dark Star" and starts tormenting the Star Guardian universe. After being defeated by  Star Guardian Kai'Sa's team, the Dark Star tries to send visions to Kai'Sa, warning her that, despite defeating its agent, none will stop it as it shall consume all. It also sends visions to Star Guardian Syndra, asking her to break chains, which gives her a headache.

The Remembrancers
Within the Pulsefire universe, the institute known as The Remembrancers are tasked with managing and observing any temporal anomalies and changes to the timelines of the Multiverse. They do this by sending enforcers using a Chrono technology known as Pulsefire. Pulsefire armor is able to create its own controlled time fissure which allows the user to warp from one universe to the other.

Assorted Temporal Events
An Ezreal from a variant of the	Runeterra Legacy universe finds a natural time fissure within the Southern Wastes. Stumbling through the fissure, he emerges within the Pulsefire universe and is able to acquire Pulsefire armor. 
An older Ekko from a variant of the  Runeterra Prime universe creates a time fissure with his younger counterpart. After closing the time fissure and going "out of time", he uses a Chronoport to open up multiple time fissures to different universes or timelines before finally deciding on one where his parents are happy living in Zaun.

Perceived Prime Universe
Within the expansive space of the Multiverse, there are a handful of universes that have taken the role of the "canon" universe throughout the Multiverse's life span. Each of these universes have a close relationship with the other, since they all have relatively little differences in their initial conditions.

Runeterra Prime
Runeterra Prime is the central universe within the League of Legends multiverse, featuring the most stories, lore, and content. Its lore, commonly referred to as the "canon" lore, provides the official and accepted narrative.

Within this universe, there are various skinlines that offer unique interpretations of the lore and expand upon different aspects of the world. Two notable examples are the Spirit Blossom and The Ruined King Saga series, which delve into folklore and depict pivotal moments within this universe:

Spirit Blossom: Depict traditional folklore and mythology told during the Ionian Spirit Blossom festivals, as well as a possible afterlife in the Ionian mythos. Champions represent the characters from those stories.
The Ruined King Saga: Depict certain character appearances during the Return of the Ruined King story events.
Arcane is the main setting of the Arcane series. A couple of notable differences in their initial conditions are:
Hextech Origins: In the Runeterra Prime universe, Hextech technology has been present in various regions for a significant period, with the Ferros Clan acquiring and developing it as part of the lore. However, in the Arcane universe, Hextech did not exist until Jayce's discovery of its potential.
Jinx and Vi's Relationship: In the Runeterra Prime universe, Jinx and Vi are established as archenemies and conflicting personalities. They are portrayed as adversaries from the start, with Vi serving as a law-enforcing enforcer and Jinx as a chaotic criminal. However, in the Arcane universe, the dynamic between Jinx and Vi is explored in more depth, delving into their shared past and complex relationship.
Zaun vs The Undercity: In the Runeterra Prime universe, the undercity is known as Zaun, which exists as a distinct and separate city beneath Piltover. However, in the Arcane universe, it is only referred to as the Undercity.

Runeterra Legacy
Runeterra Legacy used to be the primary universe and canon lore of the League of Legends intellectual property. The lore itself had direct connections to what players did within the game of League of Legends, such as the Ionia vs Noxus event and the Journal of Justice. Since 2014 (Shurima Crest icon Shurima lore update event) it has been mostly abandoned and replaced with the Runeterra Prime universe and the Institute of War skin universe (an alternate Runeterra Legacy timeline). Most character story biographies and Judgments of the "old" lore are archived in the old lore category.

Universes
Canonical Universes
These universes have/had dedicated pages and/or short stories listed on the official Universe site.

Runeterra Prime, Runeterra Legacy, Moons of Ionia, Event Horizon, High Noon Gothic, Odyssey, PROJECT, Pulsefire, Riot Records, and Star Guardian. The Arcane 2021 universe is currently being converged with the Runeterra Map profileicon Runeterra Prime universe.

Unconfirmed Universes
These Universes do not have dedicated pages and/or short stories listed on the official Universe site. Some have Community made stories that were officially endorsed by Riot Games, others have skin bios that link together to form a story. Universes listed here may actually be skin themes that are part of a larger currently unknown universe(s) yet to be revealed by Riot Games. Some skins, like Pulsefire Ezreal Pulsefire Ezreal, also refers to them as "timelines".
Arcana, Battle Queens‎, Bees, Bloodstone, Cats Versus Dogs, Cloudedge, Corrupted, Crime City Nightmare, Crimson Elite, Culinary Masters, Dragon World, Eclipse, Esports, Fables, Folded Edges, Gilded, Glacial, God Weapon, Guardian of the Sands, Headhunter, Heavy Metal, Hextech, Immortal Journey, Institute of War, Iron Firmament, Legacy, Mecha Kingdoms, Neighborhood Nightmare, Order of the Lotus, PAX, Piltover Customs, Prehistoric Hunters, PsyOps, Riftquest, Shan Hai Scrolls, Silver Age, Space Groove, Stargazer, Sugar Rush, Sunkissed Summer, Super Galaxy, Tales from the Rift, Tales of Borealis, The Grind, Thunder Lord, Toy Box, Versus, War is Heck, Warring Kingdoms, Winter Sports.


The following universes do not have dedicated pages and/or short stories listed on the official Universe site. Universes listed here may actually be skin themes that are part of a larger currently unknown universe(s) yet to be revealed by Riot Games.

Surprise Party: A universe where champions join Amumu's surprise party. It has connection to High Society,Toy Box and Chicken on a Culinary Masters.

Chosen and Forsaken: A universe inspired by the Star Wars IP. 
 Galactic: A universe similar to the Stargate franchise.
Jurassic: A universe where characters are fossils of ancient beasts.
Urf: A universe where characters are connected to Urf, The Manatee.
Soulstealers: A universe where characters are soul hunters. The set was briefly sorted as such by Riot support but has not been in the client.

Trivia
Several universes have connections to other universes or characters from those universes due to skin biographies, short stories, splash art, and/or quotes.
Currently the only universe stated to not be part of the Multiverse is the Valorant universe, despite obvious symbolism and references (and even connections with RiotX Arcane) to the League of Legends intellectual property that contradict this statement.


