This document contains information about Bilgewater.

Bilgewater

Titles
Alias(es)
Lawless Port City
Sociocultural characteristics
Nation(s)
 Bilgewater
Capital
Bilgewater Bay
Language(s)
Buhru
Demacian (Modern)
Freljordian (Modern)
Ionian (Modern)
Piltovan
Shuriman (Modern)
Vastayan
Va-Nox
Religion(s)
Akana Spirits
Celestials
Church of The Glorious Evolved
Freljordian Demi-gods
 Janna
Kanmei Spirits
 Kindred (Lamb & Wolf)
Nagakabouros
 Tahm Kench
 The Protector
 The Veiled Lady
Demonym(s)
Bilgerat
Government(s)
Gang syndicates
Ruler(s)
 Gangplank (Formerly Reaver King)
 Miss Fortune
Legislature(s)
Pirate Captains
Attitude towards magic
Employ
Level of technology
Medium
Establishment history
Westward Migration (6000 BN - 5000 BN)
 Serpent Isles (5000 BN - Present)
Rune Wars (25 BN -3 BN)
Modern Migration (772 AN - 787 AN)
 Bilgewater (787 AN - Present)
Currency
Golden Krakens
Silver Serpents
Golden Hexes
Silver Cogs
Bronze Washers
Securi
Physical characteristics
General environment(s)
Tropical archipelago
Island(s)
Serpent Isles
Universe(s)
 Runeterra Prime
 Runeterra Legacy
 Arcane

 Bilgewater is a haven for smugglers, marauders, and the unscrupulous, where fortunes are made and ambitions shattered in the blink of an eye. For those fleeing justice, debt, or persecution, it is a city of new beginnings; no one on the twisted streets of Bilgewater cares about your past. It's a melting pot of cultures, races, and creeds, alive with activity at all hours.

While incredibly dangerous, Bilgewater is also ripe with opportunity, free from the shackles of government, regulation, and moral constraints. If you have the coin, almost anything can be purchased in Bilgewater, from outlawed hextech to the favor of local crime lords. Nevertheless, come daybreak, the unwary are found floating in the harbor, their purses empty and their throats slit.

Lore
Bilgewater is a port city like no other - home to monster hunters, dock-gangs, indigenous peoples, and traders from across the known world. Over time becoming a vital stop for trade ships traveling near the Serpent Isles. Almost anything can be purchased here, from outlawed hextech to the favor of local crime lords. There is no better place to seek fame and fortune, though death lurks in every alleyway, and the law is almost non-existent.

Champions of Bilgewater
Fizz
Gangplank
Graves
Illaoi
Jack
Miss Fortune
Nautilus
Nilah
Tahm Kench
Pyke
Twisted Fate
Other Related Champions
 Ahri traveled to Bilgewater with her bodyguard  Yasuo.
 Braum washed ashore in Bilgewater while on a journey to find a cure to an illness running rampant through the Freljord.
 Camille trained with natives of the Serpent Isles, where she learned how to effectively use a grappling line and hook.
 Hecarim attacked Bilgewater during the Harrowing and laid waste to the port of Grey Harbor.
 Janna protects sailors around the Serpent Isles.
 Kalista punishes betrayers in Bilgewater.
 Karthus attacked a Bilgewater ship.
 Lucian defended Bilgewater against the Black Mist.
 Olaf defended Bilgewater against the Black Mist.
 Ryze visited Bilgewater when searching for a passage to the East to search for the World Runes.
 Swain is antagonistic towards  Gangplank after the latter stole his personal warship, the Leviathan.
 Tahm Kench has deep ties with Bilgewater.
 Thresh attacked Bilgewater during the Harrowing.
 Yasuo traveled to Bilgewater with  Ahri as her bodyguard.
 Yuumi traveled to Bilgewater in search for her Master, Norra.
 Zed is antagonistic towards  Gangplank after the latter ransacked the Temple of the Jagged Knife in Ionia.
History
Burning Tides
Main article: Burning Tides
Burning Ship, Burning Tides.

"This is just the beginning.
I want everyone loyal to him brought to answer.
I want the heads of his lieutenants mounted on my wall.
Burn everything that bears his mark.
And I want his corpse." -  Miss Fortune[1]
For many of those fleeing justice, debt, or persecution, Bilgewater is a city of new beginnings. But for some, the past is something you can never escape.  Tobias 'Twisted Fate' Foxtrot, hired by an unknown  benefactor was tasked to steal and return a Crimson-Coil dagger from one of Captain Gangplank's warehouses located in Rat Town's Slaughter Docks. Easily avoiding the detection of the Jagged Hooks gang, Twisted Fate managed to infiltrate the warehouse, only to be confronted by his old partner:  Malcolm Graves.

Filled with rage at his partner's betrayal, Graves started shooting at Tobias in an effort to settle the score with him. With Gangplank's warehouse burning and the pirate captain's thugs swarming, the resolution of Graves' and Twisted Fate's long-simmering feud threatened to engulf the entire city in flames. Informed of the destruction of his warehouse,  Gangplank set off to catch both men in the act.

Both Graves and Twisted Fate tried to flee from the wrath of the Pirate King but with no success. Gangplank tortured them, then tried to publicly execute them in front of the whole city for their misbehavior. Hearing the news of this event,  Sarah Fortune set her plan in motion to confront Gangplank for murdering her parents. Graves had managed to sneak away with one of Twisted Fate's cards, snatched during their previous fight around the city. Twisted Fate used the card to teleport out of his chains; both he and Graves nearly drowned in the resulting mayhem, but at that moment, Miss Fortune's plan hit its climax, and his ship, the Dead Pool, exploded. Gangplank was presumed dead in the blast.

 Gangplank surviving the destruction of his ship.

In the aftermath of the destruction of the Dead Pool, Gangplank's spoils-filled warehouses were plundered, and those who followed the dread pirate forfeited their allegiance. A war started with the spread of three words: Gangplank is dead. Miss Fortune took the opportunity to purge the city of anyone that was loyal to the dreaded pirate.

Despite receiving horrific injuries in the explosion, Gangplank survived. Having lost everything from the attack,  Gangplank sought help from his first love  Illaoi, who deemed him worthy of life in the eyes of Nagakabouros. Sporting a multitude of fresh scars, and with a newly crafted metal arm to replace his amputated limb, he is now determined to rebuild his strength, reclaim what he sees as rightfully his, and ruthlessly punish all those who turned against him.

Shadow and Fortune
Main article: Shadow and Fortune
With the fall of Gangplank, Bilgewater descended into chaos as old rivalries were settled in blood and gang warfare threatened to tear the city apart.  Miss Fortune, the leading figure of this uprising, systematically removed all of  Gangplank's former or continuing allies from any place of power, so as to assure her spot as the ruler of Bilgewater. During one of her excursions, she was stopped by  Illaoi, who warned Fortune to stop her foolish behavior and prepare for the coming Harrowing.

As a fisherman and a warrior of the Freljord,  Olaf desired worthy battles and a glorious death to avert an old curse. The Krakenwyrm, one of his monstrous kills during his stay in Bilgewater, was sold to one of many Bilgewater's slaughter docks.

Amidst the constant chaos of the city streets,  Lucian prepared for the Harrowing's arrival.

The Harrowing comes to Bilgewater (by Riot Artist Patrick Faulwetter)

The next evening, the Harrowing arrived in Bilgewater in an attempt to purge and rip the souls out of everyone within. Undead spirits flew across the night sky and shrouded the city in a dark mist of damned shrieking souls of the Shadow Isles. People fled, cowered, or prayed to the Bearded Lady for the The Black Mist not to take them. With each citizen and living thing killed, a new spirit arose. Even the carcass of the Krakenwyrm arose, seemingly wanting to finish its fight with its slayer.

During all this,  Thresh sought out new victims and souls for his collection. Unbeknownst to him, he was being hunted down by  Lucian. Enraged by the presence of his wife's killer, Lucian swore to defeat the monster and finally rid the world of its torment. In the end, Thresh managed to escape his pursuer after a short and tense battle. As a parting gift of further torment, Thresh had conveyed that the soul of his wife, Senna, was still trapped inside his lantern. An unsettled Lucian would continue his purge of the undead while also trying to save the soul of his dead wife.

 Olaf,  Lucian, and  Miss Fortune ended up meeting one another in a brawl against the undead. Remembering the advice Illaoi gave her, Miss Fortune proposed that they head towards the Temple of Nagakabouros to seek out the help of its priestess. But while traversing the Butcher's Bridge, they were confronted at the temple's entrance by  Hecarim. Separated and barely escaping with their lives, they managed to get inside the temple, where some of the surviving citizens prayed with Illaoi for Nagakabouros' salvation.

As the Black Mist and the undead army poured into the temple,  Illaoi fended off the onslaught with the power of her god, and freed Bilgewater from threat of the Harrowing.

Despite its losses, the city lived on. Miss Fortune and Lucian, each given a new purpose, parted ways and wished each other luck. After Olaf's second encounter with the undead Krakenwyrm, he also departed Bilgewater, seeking out new challenges and worthy battles.

Fortune Smiles
Main article: Fortune Smiles
Due to the power vacuum left by Gangplank's death, the Corsair's Conclave was formed. It was a truce between the city's four strongest crews led by Captain Bragg, Sir Petyr Harker, Crow and  Captain Fortune.

Six months after the events of Burning Tides, considering Fortune's machinations against Gangplank, the other 3 captains come to the conclusion that Fortune is the only "wild card" in the truce. They decide to temporarily redistribute half of her men to their gangs and take her guns.

Trying to maintain her forces though a peaceful deal, Miss Fortune visits Petyr Harker's house, trying to seduce him into voting in her favor, arguing that Bragg and Crow are old allies and would turn against Harker soon enough. Her tentative attempt fails, and Petyr attacks Fortune with her own guns.

Forced to retreat, Miss Fortune secretly calls another parley in MacGregan's Killhouse on the Slaughter Docks. Disguised as the doorman taking the captains' guns, Miss Forturne manages to kill the rest of the Corsair's Conclave and decides to rule Bilgewater alone.

Ruined King
Main article: Ruined King
Miss Fortune continues to try to unite the gangs under rule, but many continue to resist or sympathize with Gangplank. One evening, her mansion attacked by the Black Mist, fearing another Harrowing is imminent, she contacts Illaoi for help. Meanwhile, Illaoi and her Buhru warrior track down Pyke and plan to put and end to his killings, but when he is found worthy of Nagakaborous' test, Illaoi is left questioning her choices. She soon encounters Braum, after her people fished him from bay, when he comes seeking the Waters of Life from the Shadow Isles to cure his people.

They are both summoned by Fortune to discuss the return of the Black Mist, with Illaoi and Braum agreeing to investigate Grey Harbor. Shortly Yasuo and Ahri arrive from Ionia, seeking more info about the Vesani. They are soon informed about a tip in one of the black markets and learn that a member of the Jagged Hooks, Gangplank's gang, has recently purchased a Vesani sunstone and was headed into Grey Harbor. Ahri sneaks off to find the sunstone herself, but Yasuo pursues her. He encounters Illaoi and Braum as they fight mistwalkers near the entrance of Grey Harbor and agree to venture in together.

They find the Jagged Hooks and interrogate them, learning that Ahri is following Gangplank, who now has the sunstone as well as other Buhru artifacts that can manipulate the Black Mist, to the Shadow Isles. The group investigates a nearby Buhru temple and vanquish the naga who have taken residence and purify the temple, they learn from a Buhru that Gangplank raided the temple and stole the artifacts. They reveal their findings to Miss Fortune, who is furious that her nemesis is still alive, but agrees to help them reach the Shadow Isles. They set sail after rallying her crew.

Along the way, they are attacked by a sea monster, but are saved by Pyke, who reveals that Nagakaborous has quieted the voices in his head and wants to join them, as Gangplank is on his list. On the Shadow Isles, they track Ahri to a grove, after finding her cloak, but are attacked by Maokai. Ahri intervenes and shares the history of the isles from Maokai's memories. Maokai reveals that Gangplank has partnered with Thresh to awaken the Ruined King. After returning Maokai to strength, the group attacks Thresh's fortress, inside they find Gangplank's sunstone. They manage to defeat the Chain Warden, but not before Gangplank awakens Viego.

Viego possesses Gangplank and uses him to attack the heroes, while he heads to Bilgewater to search for his queen. They manage to defeat Gangplank and free him Viego's influence, taking him with them as their prisoner. Ahri discovers Viego's true memories through the lingering Black Mist on Gangplank and learns that his love was not as pure as he made it out to be. Gangplank gives Illaoi his necklace, a Buhru artifact that can control the mist, to aid in their battle against Viego but it has become corrupted during his possession. They manage to catch up to Viego, but he maroons them on a nearby island. As Fortune's gang repairs their ship, Yasuo confronts his past when the magic of the island manifests his greatest regrets.

They beat Viego to Bilgewater and Illaoi asks the Buhru to help fix the necklace, while others help fortify the city for coming Harrowing. The group returns to the Shadow Isles to search for a hidden Buhru Forge to cleanse the necklace and are directed to its location by Necrit, a former advisor of Viego, who reveals it lays within the Vesani Vault. Inside the vault, Ahri learns more about her people and how they used their sunstones to channel their powers of memories and emotions. Ahri then decides to use Gangplank's sunstone to house Viego's memories, in order to weaken him, at the expense of the Vesani memories that remained in the vault.

The group summons Nagakaborous within the forge to cleanse their necklace and are tested by her avatar. After besting her, the Mother Serpent cleanses the amulet and they return for the final battle. Along the way, Illaoi reveals that she aided Gangplank's recovery because Nagakaborous found him worthy, but Fortune is focused on wanting revenge. They return to Bilgewater and find the Buhru already fighting Viego, they join the battle and weaken him with the memory-empowered sunstone and Fortune unleashes the amulet against him. She nearly falls to his corruption, but is pulled back and overpowers him, trapping him within the amulet. After the battle, Fortune learns that Gangplank has escaped and goes to pursue her nemesis, but entrusts Illaoi to hide the amulet. The remaining members celebrate their victory, before heading off on their own paths.

Locations
Bilgewater Bay
A New Beginning
Surrounded by treacherous straits and towering cliffs, Bilgewater Bay is as dangerous as those who call it home. Visitors are often seduced by seemingly limitless opportunity, and become permanent residents—realizing that the longer they stay, the more they can exploit others for power and wealth.

Black Market Grottos: Situated in the lowest parts of Bilgewater Bay, these locations are the primary location of Bilgewater's black market. Bilgewater's lowliest inhabitants dwell in a labyrinth of meandering canals and hidden inlets, with no separation between the homes they build and the sea where they ply their trade.
Cutpurse Square: A thriving marketplace surrounded by swaying dwellings built in a wide square on one of the floating wharf-shanties, the Cutpurse Square can be seen from almost all of Bilgewater.  Miss Fortune, Rafen and thirty more men of her crew fought the Mist here until they were saved from  Hecarim by  Lucian.
Grey Harbor: A Bilgewater port lost years ago to the Mist. Before its fall it contained a magnificient Buhru temple. It has since been overrun by mistwalkers. Captain Malik reunited the Jagged Hooks and was somehow able to dwell in the Black Mist covering the Harbor.
Rat Town: Bilgewater Bay is the main entrance to the largest settlement of Bilgewater, Rat Town. Butcher's Bridge, which is located upstream and above the Slaughter Docks, acts as a gate to the in and out of the island the city is built on. Fleet Street has various pubs and taverns and boasts the island's finest rum. (They say that patrons of the Brazen Hydra can be heard all the way to Diver's Bluff!)
Butcher's Bridge: Looming over the main harbor is Butcher's Bridge, an ancient stone overpass built into the cliffs, connecting the bustling piers with the notorious slums beyond. Most gather here to fight duels or exchange their illicit wares.
Serpent Bridge Connecting the Temple of the Mother Serpent to the rest of the city, the bridge is made of uneven cobblestone in undulant and spiral shapes.
Temple of The Mother Serpent: One of the few Buhru temples opened in Bilgewater, it is dedicated to the deity known as Nagakabouros. It was built within a crater using scavenged materials from the sea. It is here where  Illaoi with the help of her God was able to cast out  Hecarim and the other undead wraiths from the Bay during one of the Harrowings.
The Slaughter Docks
Slaughter Docks: Massive sea monsters are a const threat in the waters around Bilgewater. Fleets leave port at sunset every night to hunt these mighty beasts. If successful, they return to the Slaughter Docks to render the once-great creatures down to meat, bones, and armored hides. The Slaughter Docks are located next to Rat Town, beneath Butcher's Bridge. The sea around the Slaughter-docks is often darkened by the blood of slain sea monsters. The chum draws sharks and other predators into the many harbors, stirring up a violent froth. Slaughter fleets leave port at sunset every night to hunt mighty sea monsters.
Carving Bays: From MacGregan's Killhouse to the renowned outfits at Bloodharbor, slaughter docks operate day and night to turn death into profit. Only the most successful captains can ever hope to run their own dock, so most are forced to haggle for the best deal before their prize begins to rot in the water.
Gangplank's Warehouse: Gangplank's warehouse was situated at the end of a pier, guarded on three sides by sharks and razorfish-infested waters, and on the fourth by his vicious Jagged Hooks dock gang. It was full of loot and spoils from every corner of the world. In the aftermath of the destruction of the Dead Pool, Gangplank's spoils-filled warehouses have been  plundered, and those who followed the dread pirate have forfeited their allegiance.
MacGregan's Killhouse: Located at the edge of the Slaughter Docks and Bilgewater Bay, it is the primary location where  Miss Fortune does her dirty work by executing political rivals or capturing outlaws.
The Dead Pool: Anchored near the Slaughter Docks, the enormous, three-masted behemoth, Gangplank's flagship was one of the most infamous vessels in Runeterra. Inherited after his ruthless patricide, the Dead Pool was as much a reminder of the dread captain's power as it was the physical manifestation of it. When Gangplank's ship returned to port, laden with loot from his latest piracy or high-seas victory, it first berthed near the Slaughter Docks to deposit new riches in the captain's warehouse. It has since been destroyed, and its remains are scattered all across the Slaughter Docks and the sea bed of White Wharf.
White Wharf: Located near the Slaughter Docks, Bilgewater's White Wharf earned its name thanks to the layer of bird waste covering it from end to end, which was only to be expected at a resting place for the dead. In Bilgewater, the dead are not buried, but given back to the ocean, and this is where it all happens. A grave of the sunken dead hangs suspended in the cold depths, marked by hundreds of bobbing grave-buoys. The graves of poor residents have merely name posts, tied en masse to old anchors beneath waterlogged barrels. The wealthy have lavish bobbing tombstones with carvings resembling rearing krakens or buxom sea wenches, and are interred within expensive caskets below the surface. The Boatman ferries the bodies of the departed to the various graveyards scattered about the straits surrounding the city.
Buhru
Buhru Temple

The isle of Buhru are one of the isles of the Serpent Isles island chain,.[2] Here battle isn't considered a test of strength but of will.[3] These Isles are the location from which the religion of Nagakabouros and its  priestess originate from.

Temple of The Mother Serpent: The main Serpent Isles temple for the deity known as Nagakabouros.

Wildlife

Wildlife diversity is fairly low around Bilgewater; you're most likely to see wharf rats, seagulls, and  Scuttle Crabs.

Various monsters from across Runeterra are shipped through the black market, trained extensively and sold as living commodities for entertainment, industrial use or simply as loyal underlings. The illegal trade is especially prevalent in a pirate haven such as Bilgewater. As is the principle in the black market trade, those who pay more Krakens undoubtedly get better monsters than those who pay less. Examples of these mercenary beasts are:  Ironbacks,  Ocklepods,  Plundercrabs, and  Razorfins.

Bilge Bitter
“	  "Bilge bitter! Not for everyone."
—  Citrus Courier
See also: Noxian oranges, Ionian citrus fruit, Shadow citrus, Demacian tangor, and Piltover shaddock.

Bilgewater is home to its own citrus fruit, perhaps similar to the real-world bitter orange. It's described as 'not for everyone' by  Gangplank's  Citrus Courier, but they're shared around the crew by him, and likely eaten by other crews too, along with citrus fruit found across  Runeterra.

Due to the high risk of crews developing scurvy, citrus fruit are especially popular in Bilgewater.

Dredge Dredgers
Dredge Dredgers
Dredge Dredgers are goblin-like creatures that live around the Serpent Isles and the Guardian's Sea. The are sentient and sapient beings able to wear humanoid clothing, use tools, and express themselves. It is unclear if they have one eye or two, since members of their race often wear squids as hats. They have yellow skin and share some visual similarities with Yordles.

Ironbacks
Main article: Ironback
 Ironbacks are squat bipedal creatures that resemble turtles or tortoises. Though not as tall as a human adult, they are far wider and more heavily-built. When domesticated and used for combat, they act as siege engines. Their stout strength can tear down whole structures with ease; and when outfitted with armor to complement their thick hide, they can endure the most grievous assaults.

Poros
Main article: Poro
A particularly  ruthless Poro in front of the bounty board.

 Poros are mysterious, magical, and dearest creatures originating from the Howling Abyss. Poros are equal parts truth, valor, and innocence. The colour of their fur is described as “very light blue, like  Freljordian snow”. They have a heart-shaped underbelly because they're made of love. A poro's horns perk up when it's excited and droop down when it's scared. Poros paddle through deep snow with their front paws. Some believe that poros are indestructible. Poros stick their tongue out because they are incredibly warm. This is why they can survive the harsh cold environment of the Howling Abyss.  Poro-Snax are frosted with Freljordian ice crystals and are a favourite treat of this creature. The leader of the Poros is known as the  Poro King.

There is at least one Poro found in Bilgewater.

Powder Monkeys
Powder Monkeys
Powder Monkeys are simian creatures that originate from a Monkey Idol currently located on the Serpent Isles. The are small of stature with fur that has a gunpowder color and glowing yellow eyes. They often live gather around people or areas where there is a heavy use of gunpowder, hence their names. They are mischievous, but can prove useful in enhancing gunpowder related weapons with unknown magical powers.

Sea Horses
Sea Horses are large equine creatures that live around the Serpent Isles. Contrary to their name, they are mostly land based creatures, being used as a mode of transportation by some Bilgewater residence. Their key features are their fin manes, long tails, as well as their scaled-like skin.

Wharf Rat
Main article: Razorfin
 Wharf Rats, or Razorfins, are amphibious quadrupeds which are a terrifying blend of shark and rat commonly found on the docks of Bilgewater. These creatures are larger than dogs and are known to prey upon drunks and lone fishermen on moonless nights. They often travel in packs, and are easily capable of biting a man's leg off. Their lithe streamlined bodies allude to their speed; their teeth to their ferocity. Criminal circles often train these creatures to seek out and hound high-value targets. Indeed, once a Razorfin draws blood from its target, only death will deter it.


In Bilgewater one can come across many astounding creatures brought from the dark and mysterious Guardian's Sea, such as dragon-sharks, sea serpents, giant squid, four-eyed hammerhead sharks, and kraken.

There are also more mundane creatures inhabiting the sea, coastlines and docks such as octopi, hammerhead sharks, devilfish, clams, and ordinary fish.

Abyssal Eyes
Abyssal Eye
Abyssal Eyes are large deep sea fish that live in the seas around the Serpent Isles. Their key features are their large mouths with sharp from teeth and their one purple eye. It is possible that these creatures have been mutated by The Void, are Voidborn themselves, or something other.

Bubble Bears
Bubble Bears are axolotl-like creatures that live in the shallow waters of the Guardian's Sea. Their unique body structure gives them an appearance of a living bubble, with sharp claws and hoof-like feet. They feed on magically infused bubbles that emerge from the surrounding vents where they live.

Coral Creatures
Coral Creatures are semi-plant species of living coral that live in the shallow waters of the Guardian's Sea. They display some form of sentients and sapience, being able to stand up right and have poseable hands with which they use for rudimentary tools and to gather and consume magically infused bubbles that emerge from the surrounding vents. They live in large groups and tend to inhabit areas where non-sentient coral is located which they use to disguise themselves from possible predators.

Dragon-sharks
Giant Crab used by a Fish Folk Merchant
Dragon-sharks are a large deep-ocean dwelling species of shark native to the seas around Bilgewater. A hide of one of the sharks is used for creating a shop stand on the Butcher's Bridge in Bilgewater. One of the famous Dragon-Sharks is Chomper, who terrorized the shorelines of Bilgewater before being defeated by Fizz and becoming his companion.

Fish Folk
Fish Folk are sentient and sapient fish people that live around the Serpent Isles. They key physical features resemble that of a cat fish as well as the Demon of Addiction,  Tahm Kench.

Four-eyed Hammerhead Sharks
Four-eyed Hammerhead Sharks are an ocean dwelling species of sharks native to the seas around Bilgewater. Their brown hide is rough, and almost scale-like. Their head is in the shape of a hammer with two pairs of eyes, and they have five fins for movement.

Giant Crabs
Giant Crabs are native to the seas around Bilgewater. One of their key characteristics is their rough outer shell with many spikes as well as their large oval eyes. Domesticated giant crabs are used by Bilgewater merchants to carry heavy goods on their backs.

Giant Squids
Giant Squids are native to the seas around Bilgewater. They tend to be the size of a house, although some are said to grow even bigger, and can sometimes attack smaller ships. They are also usually hunted for either food or sport. Both objectives are dangerous.

Golden Narwhals
Golden Narwhals are large aquatic mammals that live in the deeps seas surrounding the Serpent Isles. Legends say a pale, horned whale once stole from the Bearded Lady. As punishment, the Lady covered the greedy creature in glittering gold, so it would forever tempt the avarice of others.

Krakens
Krakens are massive serpentine leviathans that have been sighted in the seas around Bilgewater. They possess a set of tentacles and five eyes, two pairs and one large one at the center of the forehead. There is enough mythos behind this species on the Serpent Isles and that many structures in honor of this species were constructed by the original denizens of Bilgewater. Their image has been used for the currency of Bilgewater, know as Golden Krakens.

Longtooths
 Longtooth 1
 Longtooths are a group of elasmobranch fish characterized by a cartilaginous skeleton, two to three gill slits on the sides of the head, and pectoral fins that are not fused to the head. Unlike other shark species, they seem to possess some form of higher intelligence, being able to follow orders and display visible emotions like anger or glee. Their appearance resembles real-life great white sharks, with some exaggerated proportions such as the teeth, head, and eyes. While the name Longtooth primarily refers to  Fizz's shark, the species itself does not have any known name.

Ocklepods
Main article: Ocklepod
 Ocklepods are crustacean-like creatures that magically hover above the ground unassisted. They either inhabit or have been outfitted with a metallic helm with submarine periscope jutting above, the creature's eyes peek through the helm and periscope. This creature is mostly used for intelligence-gathering and support roles as they are capable of magically shielding nearby allies as well as revealing distances. This is especially infuriating in attrition wars as the creature's telepathic sight could easily reveal an ambush and its shielding capability is able to see troops through the thickest of fires.

Platewyrms
Platewyrms are large serpent-like deep-sea fish that have natural bio-luminescence at the ends of their scales. Extremely protective of their large glowing eggs, they can be seen taking out any ship that dares to plunder them.

Plundercrabs
Main article: Plundercrab
 Plundercrabs are large crustaceans that wear cannon-mounted parapets as their shell. It is unknown whether they inhabit the said weaponry naturally, or are purposely outfitted. Used as living artillery pieces, they lay down cannon fire from afar. They seem very intelligent for an animal, as they can trained to pick out high-priority targets to focus fire upon.

Scuttle Crabs
Main article: Rift Scuttler
A  Rift Scuttler
 Scuttler Crabs or Rift Scuttlers live in the fresh waters of Valoran and can be found near the docks of Bilgewater (and in-game, in Summoner's Rift). They are small green-shelled crustaceans with three pairs of legs and one pair of front claws. They sometimes bury themselves into the muck of a river bed to avoid predators and usually flee from danger in any way possible. If corrupted by The Void, a Rift Scuttler turns into a  Rift Herald.

Sea Serpent
 Sea Serpents are so well known in Bilgewater that the city's crest and currency both feature them. They can be summoned by serpent-callers; one account from a bygone Harrowing records the might of these creatures, which halted the progress of the Black Mist before it reached Bilgewater, though the beast was slain in the process.

Shellshockers
Shellshockers are turtle-like creatures that live in the shallow waters of the Guardian's Sea. They display some form of sentients and sapience, being able to stand up right and have poseable hands with which they use for rudimentary tools and organic cannons that shoot out magically infused bubbles.

Waveriders
Waveriders are large aquatic herbivores that resemble geckos. They live in the shallow areas of the Guardian's Sea. They are a great mode of transportation for the Shellshockers, who use them as their war steeds.

Wing-Eared Devours
Wing-Eared Devours are large deep sea fish that live in the seas around the Serpent Isles. Their key features are their numerous tentacles, their wing like fins, as well as their anglers that they use to lure prey so that they can gobble them up in their large mouths with sharp teeth.


Culture

While much of Valoran knows the archipelago as the Blue Flame Isles, to the indigenous people of Buhru they have only ever been the Serpent Isles. Buhru's ancient culture is highly respected, reflected, and sometimes imitated in the daily life of Bilgewater—including traditional medicine, and monster hunting techniques.

The indigenous culture of the Blue Flame Isles is highly respected by the inhabitants of Bilgewater and aspects of it have been incorporated into daily life. The native peoples' knowledge of the ocean and its denizens is second to none; no ship is able to navigate the perilous straits around Bilgewater without their guidance. Those of indigenous descent often hold key roles in Bilgewater's fleets and gangs and are regarded with almost mystical reverence, as are the rare few embraced by their community.

The Slaughter Docks
Bilgewater is a relatively lawless nation, particularly in the pirate-run slums. The majority of the island's denizens carry a variety of weapons, which range from cutlasses to pistols, in order to protect themselves at all times. Traditionally, Bilgerat warriors coat their weapons with the remains of their drinks the night before a battle or raid. This has the effect of increasing the pain of wounds caused and often spreads diseases such as gangrene, inhibiting their enemies' ability to fight back. Many of their larger ironclad ships are also outfitted with multiple cannons that can strike targets over long distances.

The native inhabitants of Bilgewater are rugged seafaring folk and many, naturally, are also pirates. While some vessels are kept protected within safe waters, their nation has little jurisdiction over what occurs in the open seas. Sailors intrepid enough to venture out there are free to decide their own fate and fortune. Many Bilgerat pirates also sail to other nations and are known for their raids on settlements.

The Serpent Isles
Massive sea monsters are a constant threat in the waters around Bilgewater and over the centuries, a trade industry has grown out of hunting and harvesting them. The nature of the beasts attraction to the islands is unknown, but their impact cannot be denied. Seeing behemoths rise from the deep is just part of a normal day for grizzled veterans of the criminal haven. Over the years myriad lucrative industries have grown out of hunting and harvesting the massive creatures. Vessels haul them back to port, to be rendered down into meat, oils, hides, armored scales—even bones and teeth—for sale at the thriving dockside markets.

As a result, sea monster iconography can be seen all over the nations structures and other everyday objects as part and parcel of Bilgewater's unique appearance.

languages
There are several ancient languages spoken in Bilgewater and islands around it; one of which is spoken by priests of Nagakabouros from the Isle of Buhru, such as  Illaoi
(The ancient Buhru Illaoi uses is a mix between real life Nahuatl, Polynesian, and Mayan languages)

Buhru Language[4]
Grammar
Buhru ['bʌh.ru] is an inflectional and agglutinative language, i.e. Buhru-speakers modify a word to express grammatical categories: like a noun's number, a verb's tense, etc. by adding affixes, yet roots and affixes almost always remain unchanged:

Buhru's plural suffix is -i, e.g. yaotl [ja.otɫ̩] "enemy" > yaotli [ja.otli] "enemies"
(from Nahuatl yāōtl [ˈjáːˈ.oːt͡ɬ] "warrior > enemy" & yāōmeh [ˈjáːˈ.oːmeʔ] "warriors > enemies", from root yāō-)
Buhru has two grammatical genders:

Feminine nouns typically ends with a vowel, like Llatoo [latu];
Masculine nouns typically ends with clusters tl [tɫ̩] & chtl [ʃtɫ̩], occasionally c [s], e.g. yaotl
(Nahuatl does not have grammatical genders, only two noun classes: animate and inanimate).
(In Nahuatl, -tl ~ -tli ~ -li are absolutive singular suffixes, to mean that the noun is not possessed; e.g. yāōtl "enemy" vs. tēyāōuh "someone's enemy"; itzcuīntli [it͡skʷiːnt͡ɬi] "dog" vs. tēitzcuīn "someone's dog"; cal- + -tli = calli "house" [ka:li] vs. tēcal "someone's house")
Phonotactics
Each Buhru syllable contains:

an optional onset of one or more consonants, e.g. opochtli [o.po.ʃtli], whose syllables have all three structures V.CV.C⁺V;
from Nahuatl ōpōchtli [ˈoː.poːt͡ʃ.t͡ɬi] "south", whose three syllables are actually structured V.CVC.CV; more here
an obligatory nucleus of one vowel, e.g. oro, aco, ata, umo, buhru etc..
Hiatus is allowed, so Buhru speakers may produce a sequence of vowels without intervening consonants: poao, uocae, etc.
an optional ending of one or more consonants, e.g. chtl.
an ending l will become syllabic and velarized into [ɫ̩] (like English -le & -el). (not the case in Nahuatl)
Word Formation
Full words contain at least three syllables, e.g. Iccia "Eye'Sse'a." [aɪs.sia]

Adjectives, adverbs, and particles (analogous to Japanese honorific -san さん) are usually disyllabic, yet they often do not stand alone, but must accompany trisyllabic nouns, e.g. kaiya-oto Kai'Yah Oto [kaɪ.ja o.to].

The language is broken into two-syllable words, three-syllable words, and five-syllable words. Typically a single thought takes about twelve syllables.: “Kaiya-oto iccia, ohomoc-ata uotaca.”

Punctuation
For longer words use a – (dash) if needed to signify a morpheme boundary. Never use an apostrophe (rare exceptions exist, like sa'eu).

Orthography
Buhru possesses a deep orthography: a sound does not always correspond to the letter in a one-to-one fashion; for example: Y is pronounced like English "y" [j] in yaotl [ja.otɫ̩] but "sh" [ʃ] in Yaowc [ʃa.oʊs].

Vowels
“Ao” does not exist. Use “Oa” instead.
“Ea” does not exist. Use “Ae” or “æ” instead.
“E” letter does not exist. Replace with “AE” or ii (Sean = Siian).
“X” sound does not exist.
“Er” sound does not exist.
“Ir” sound does not exist.
“Ou” do not exist. Replace with “ua” or “u” (out = uat).
"Oo" does not exist, except at the end of feminine words. (boot = Buot) (Llatoo).
“Ai” sound very rare. Do not use this sound most times.
“As” does not exist and is not used.
“Y” is only used at the beginning of a word for the “eye” I sound.
Consonants
“K” is replaced by C.
“M” is only used next to vowels and is never the beginning or end of a word.
“S” is replaced by C. The S sound does not exist.
“T” is never alone. Add another consonant. Tl, Tl, Tc, t...
“Th” /θ/ sound does not exist. Do not use this sound.
“H” is never used alone. (hr, htl etc..).
“U” can be used as vowel or as consonant for V.
“L” is never alone (The “L” sound is always long. IF using L Add another consonant.
Ll, tl, lw, lc, ul, etc..).
“Sh” does not exist and is not used.
“V” letter does not exist. For sound replace with U.
Be aware and avoid direct use of Tl, Tc, cll, Chtl, Ythl, etc...
Vocabulary
Words are built on combinations of real-life Aztec, with additional elements of Hawaiian, Maori, Aboriginal Australian, Ancient Greek, Latin, etc.

Abulaccanii.
Althabo.
   Altoc - Awaken to reason.
   Altoc, kaiha sa-iu. Altoc kaiha sa-iu. Altoc kaiha sa-iu.
Aocarzintli.
Arzintli - Sacred water.
Arzintli Qaoc.
Ata.
Atha.
Bauhro Laidahcii.
   Buhru-latachi.
Bradhuc Ladcii.
Bru-ahcci Lahdi.
Buahdacci.
   Bru-ahcci Nagakabouros-cho, Naga-cho.
Buara Dalii.
Buzulduac.
Burahdatc Lacbi.
   Buhru-naliata-shok.
Caolz.
Chodatc.
Coatl.
Colotl.
Ctamacihtol.
Cuatl.
Curi.
   Epoi Buhru, daliet che.
Ghiara.
Guhra Ctaoc (Gow'rah Shaos).
Guyra.
Ictae.
Ibuhr.
Illaoi.
Illuka.
Illuora.
Ioelu.
Ioilu.
Iwtia.
   Kabouros.
Kaiha.
Kaiya.
Lcaoc.
   Naga-cho.
   Nagakabouros, oqul, oqul.
Nlaepin.
Nura.
Oalhauchtli.
Octala.
Octulu.
Ohlaoc.
Omu.
Opochtli.
Oqul.
Oto.
Otomoc.
Owaimoc.
Ozoac.
Ozomoc.
Poao.
Qo-a xoas.
Qo-a Yegu.
Qo-uto.
Qaoc Cuatl.
Qalotl.
Qoachitli.
Qoasotl.
Qtocaotl.
Rava Ocllo.
Rava Ucllo.
Sa'eu.
   Sa'eu yama oka-shai.
Sa-iu.
   Sheeyutu Nagakabouros. Nagakabouros chee chok.
So Aolo
Taepl.
Tjorrah.
Tlaco.
Tlatha.
Tua.
   Tua chok yaotl. Tua chok, yaotl, omu.
Tuamaz.
Ubrucii.
Ucanu.
Ulioc.
Upali.
Uqioc.
   Uratu-chok uracheon-mata, rubura ata tufon.
Uwan Yaowc (Oo'wan Shaos)
   Uwan Yaowc kaiha. Uwan Yaowc kaiha.
Vae-a.
Vaia.
Xaiv.
   Xaiv.
Xaoc Guhra.
Xoas.
Xoco.
Yaotl - Enemy.
Yaotli - Enemies.
Yllacta.
Yulutl.
Yuotldii Lahyi.
Yuralha.
Yurochtl.
Yutu.
Zocua.

Agriculture

Architecture
Ancient Architecture
Bilgewater lacks natural building resources, forcing its inhabitants to adapt. Much of Bilgewater has been built up with whatever people can bring, find, or steal—be it repurposed masonry, or even the broken hulls of the ships they traveled in. It's common to see remnants of ships from as far as Ionia, Demacia, and the Freljord incorporated into the architecture. Various settlements within the greater city have been built upon the remains of a far older civilization. Long abandoned temples have been converted into homes and places of business, with scaffold walkways leading from one establishment to another.

Canals: Bilgewater's lowliest inhabitants dwell in a labyrinth of meandering canals and hidden inlets, with no separation between the homes they build and the sea where they ply their trade. Indeed, traversing perilous waters is not just an occupational hazard, but part of daily life.
Carving Bays: Large areas where sea monsters are lifted, carved up and gutted for all their parts. Each carving bay is unique depending on what creature is being carved.
Serpent Callers: Whether by magic or ancient architectural design, serpent callers use hollowed-out pillars to mimic the screams and screeches of the denizens of the deep, summoning them to the surface or chasing them away. One such serpent was called upon during a recent Harrowing to aid Bilgewater against the onslaught of undead.
Slaughter Sheds: Slaughter sheds are closed-off versions of carving bays used for creatures not needed to be lifted up on cranes.
Water Graveyards: In Bilgewater, the dead are not buried - they are given back to the ocean. The port's graveyards consist of innumerable floating buoys, below which are sunk the corpses of the dead. The wealthy are interred within expensive submerged caskets below lavish bobbing tombstones, while the poor are often tied en masse to old anchors beneath waterlogged barrels.
Clothes
Captains And Crew
Due to Sea Monsters having such a large influence in the lives of the people of Bilgewater, sea monster iconography can be seen all over the nations structures and other everyday objects as part and parcel of Bilgewater's unique appearance. Their clothes also have influences of a myriad of different cultures such as Demacia, Ionia, Freljord, and old Buhru. Serpent Callers wear clothing made out of hides of dead sea monsters, sometimes resembling the monsters they are trying venerate.

Tattoos: A Common type of body marking found in Bilgewater. Due to the melding pot nature of Bilgewater, there are slew of different tattoo designs that can be obtained on the docks of the bay. However the most common designs are those of sea monsters, where sailors and pirates make their bodies with the images of these powerful creatures as a sign of respect as well as pride.
Currency
Golden Krakens

Wile the nation takes and uses all kinds of currency from all corners of Runeterra, it also mints its own currency. Two known currencies in Bilgewater are called Golden Krakens and Silver Serpents. The former coinage is favored by mercenaries.[5]

Rum
“	  "Survive this, and you'll need a lot of rum."
—  Gangplank
The relative peace that has kept over Valoran has led to an increase in trade and the desire for worldly imports. The demand for Bilgewater's famous rums is especially high. Captain  Morgan Rackham gives a few samples:

Rapture Rum: If you've got a bit of jink to spare and don't mind paying for a bit of celebrity, you can head on over to Fortune's Favor on Fleet Street for a bit of Miss Fortune's private stock. Rapture is clear as diamonds, with a pleasantly clean aroma of cut cane. To shake things up, Miss Fortune adds a hint of pepper and hot cinnamon to keep you warm on deck during stormy days at sea. To be enjoyed with your favorite tropical fruit, Miss Fortune's Rapture Rum is every bit as much the exotic beauty that she is!
Gangplank's Black Pearl Rum: Let me ask you a question, sailor. Have you ever chewed rum? No?! Well then you've probably never run afoul of Gangplank and his fabled Black Pearl. Aged in charred oak casks and infused with some of the richest spices that Valoran has to offer, this rum comes out blacker than pitch and about as thick. Gangplank's Black Pearl is a draught for the true rum enthusiast, only. The rest of you blokes are just going to wind up feeling barmy and running for the deck rails. So be careful! I've seen a bit of the black stuff lay out even the roughest blighter with nary a hint of warning.
Myron's Dark Rum: This rum is the trademark drink of Myron's Murderhole, one of the most famous and historic bars in all of Bilgewater. Dark in color with the aroma of woody molasses, this infamous spirit is a veritable staple of Bilgewater sailors on the high seas. Richer than its lighter relatives, this dark beauty finishes with an uncanny sweetness that's just perfect for taking the edge off. Enjoy with hot water, or even straight from the bottle. Either way, Myron's Dark will keep you warmer than a pea coat on a blustery day.
Mount Atin Eclipse Rum: This rum is characteristically served at Plankwalkin' Pete's, a newfangled bar run dockside by a barmy lad with a peg leg. Light amber in color, Mount Atin will assail your senses with the aroma of sweet grass, molasses, nutmeg, and just a hint of citrus. A bit dry on its own, your typical dose comes served with tonic and a lime, so after a glass or two you're well on your way to warding off both scurvy and malaria.
Technologies
Cannons
Gun'Dolas: Gun'Dolas are raised platforms that transport goods and rendered-down sea monster meat, bone, and fat across the islands on rust-worn rails. Some of the gondolas have cannons installed, inspiring the locals' clever name.
Hand-Cannons: Hand-cannons are relatively cheap pistols used in Bilgewater. They are popular among the myriad dock gangs, common brigands, and young corsairs alike.
Slotbots: Technological Golems imported from  Piltover used for gambling parlors.
Tools
Bounty Boards
“	  "Nothing cuts dirtier than Bilgewater steel."
—  Gangplank
Bounty Boards: The closest you can get to laws and government in Bilgewater is the bounty board. Written on it are the names of the most wanted criminals of Bilgewater, ranked by how much would be paid for their heads. It is said that the reaver king Gangplank regularly added a silver serpent to his own bounty, as an open challenge to the entire city.
Hooks: The most skilled monster hunters know the old ways are often the best. Following the traditions of the Serpent Isles, these cunning traps and vicious hooks are each crafted for luring and slaying specific creatures, and such implements will be passed down from generation to generation.

Mythos
Ballad of the Wing-Eared Sunken Lady
“	"I was sailing just the other day,
Out beyond Bilgewater Bay,
When, from the depths, she came my way,
the Wing-Eared Sunken Lady
She swallowed me whole, me skiff and me soul,
So I'm singin' this song in her belly,
And now I must wait 'til I meet my fate,
In the Wing-Eared Sunken Lady."

Nagakabouros
Nagakabouros
“	
"Lift the light from Mother Serpent
To the clouds, up from the waves.
The sky looks down, with gray eyes earnest,
A calm reflection of her gaze.
She smiles, is at peace..."

— Prayer to Nagakaborous
Central to Buhru culture is Nagakabouros—god of life, growth, and perpetual motion. Also known as the Mother Serpent, the Great Kraken, or the Bearded Lady, she is commonly depicted as an enormous, monstrous head with many spiraling tentacles.

When arriving in and leaving port, sailors throw offerings overboard in the hope of quelling her wrath. Myths about her date back centuries, and it's a reckless sailor who fails to drop the traditional tithe into the Serpent's Well upon docking his ship in Bilgewater.

 Illaoi, the Goddess' priestess, tests weaklings and the dead to see if they pass Nagakabouros's judgement. The Goddess directly intervened in one of the recent Harrowings to stop the Black Mist from destroying the entire city of Bilgewater.


Tahm Kench
“	  "Call me king, call me demon - water forgets the names of the drowned."
—  Tahm Kench
Ol'  Tahm Kench's likeness marks dens of avarice throughout Bilgewater. A symbol of greed and uninhibited freedom, the River King's face appears as lewd graffiti almost as often as it is a guidepost for those looking to satiate tastes of an indelicate sort.

The All Seeing Eye
“	
"Aye aye, they cried, and set off away,
To see to trouble in fair Nashramae,
But nature, she turned, and many did die,
An' the rest are off to see the all-seein' eye!"


Festivals
The Harrowing
The Harrowing In Bilgewater
The Shadow Isles were once a beautiful realm, long since shattered by a magical cataclysm. Now, Black Mist permanently shrouds the land, tainting and corrupting with its malevolent sorcery. Those who perish within it are condemned to become part of it for all eternity... and worse still, each year the Mist extends its grasp to reap more souls across Runeterra.

At times, the Black Mist reaches across the seas — and the spirits of the dead go with it. The harrowing strikes most frequently in Bilgewater. Those slain by the spirits during the Harrowing are damned, their souls dragged back to the Shadow Isles when the Black Mist retreats.

While weaker spirits may only be able to manifest during a Harrowing, more powerful entities can always do so, sometimes even venturing beyond the Shadow Isles.

Government
Bilgewater is ruled by gang syndicates. Each Gang leader controlled a part of Bilgewater, with  Gangplank controlling them all until his downfall by  Miss Fortune.

Currently Bilgewater's power structure is in a state of flux, with numerous crime bosses and captains vying for power.  Miss Fortune has declared herself queen of Bilgewater and has consolidated remarkable power amongst the gangs.

Social Standing
There is a commonly accepted truth in Bilgewater: the higher you climb, the less likely you are to drown. Those with money in their pocket will frequent the uptown taverns, enjoying fine drinks and merry conversation—even though, in a day or two, they will be back down at the wharf, wrangling a crew for their next dismal voyage.

Organizations
Captains And Crew
Bilgewater is home to serpent-hunters, dock gangs, and smugglers from across the known world. For those fleeing justice, debt, or persecution, Bilgewater can be a place of new beginnings, for no one on these twisted streets cares about your past.

Boatman
A fixture of every floating graveyard, these grim sailors ferry the dead out to their final resting place.

Harpooners
One of the most important roles on a hunting crew is the harpooner, who hooks and slays the beasts, and entire crews will be built around a veteran who can teach others a thing or two along the way. Many harpooners are marksmen, or particularly fearless freedivers... but few survive long enough for their reputation to become widely known.

 Jagged Hooks
As rivals represented by unique symbols and traditions, many of the fleets constantly fight among themselves for dominance. One of the oldest and fiercest dock gangs in Bilgewater, the Jagged Hooks swear undying allegiance to  Gangplank. They take their name from the wickedly curved tools many of them use while hunting sea monsters.

 Syrens
One of the youngest pirate crews in Bilgewater, Syrens were established by  Miss Fortune. After the Burning Tides the power balance in Bilgewater has shifted with the crew of the Syren now being at the forefront of the cities politics. The crew was instrumental in defending the city from the  Shadow Isles harrowing.

Relations

Bilgewater is a sea-monster-hunting crime haven, a home to a wide variety of denizens seeking adventure, fortune or clandestine careers. While the pirate-friendly town has little respect for the laws of other nations, they have their ports open for people from all the world's corners.

 Freljord
At least some inhabitants in Bilgewater are of Freljordian descent, and occasionally one finds inverted Freljordian longships against the carved cliff faces. Freljordian fishermen constantly trade with the nation.

 Ionia
During Noxus' hostilities on Ionian soil, many pirates from Bilgewater sailed to the island nation. For years they ruthlessly pillaged the settlements along the island's coastlines and fought naval battles with Ionian vessels when engaged. Even after the war, many Ionians still feel deep enmity towards Bilgewater due to its denizens' actions.

 Ixtal
Ixtali culture is part of an older great westward diaspora that gave the rise of civilizations such as the Buhru of the Serpent Isles. After its isolation from the rest of the world and the formation of Bilgewater, a lot of pirates and adventure seekers would attempt to trek into the unforgiving jungle landscape in search of ancient treasure, only to never be heard from again (due to the wildlife, or the Ixtali defending their borders). One of the group of people that settled the regions around Ixtal are the riverfolk of the Serpentine River.

Mudtown
Many gamblers and thieves from Bilgewater visit the gambling parlors in Mudtown.  Twisted Fate has gained his gambling reputation in Mudtown as the Card Master.

 Noxus
Thanks to  Gangplank's marauding against Noxian warfleets, Bilgewater and Noxus are on shaky terms with one another. At some point Gangplank managed to steal the Leviathan,  Swain's personal warship, earning the personal enmity of Noxus's Grand General. After Gangplank's fall from power, it is unknown if relations between Bilgewater and Noxus have improved. However, Bilgerat pirates on occasion will assist the Noxian military, should they see the endeavor profitable. It is also said that Byrne, one of  Miss Fortune's mans who died during the events of Burning Tides, was the terror of the Noxian coast, but it is unknow if those affirmations were true.

 Piltover
As Runeterra's biggest black market, Bilgewater trades all manner of illicit hextech pilfered from Piltover. The Sun Gates allowed Bilgewater to prosper as a haven for pirates and reavers who prey on ships traveling to and from Piltover.

 Shadow Isles
The Blue Flame Isles are closer to the Shadow Isles than anywhere else, and the first to be enveloped by the yearly Harrowing.


Trivia
The name "Bilgewater" is a combination of two English words: bilge and water.
A bilge is the lowest compartment on a ship, below the waterline. The bilge may contain water, oil, detergents and various other liquids and materials. The bilge's primary use is to keep unwanted liquids and materials below the decks during sea travel.
Bilge likely derives from bulge < Old Norman boulge < Medieval Latin bulga < Proto-Celtic *bolgos "sack, bag, stomach" < PIE root verb *bʰelǵʰ- "to swell".
In Season Nine, the ranked emblems for the League system were redesigned. Bilgewater represents the emblem for the Iron rank.
Bilgewater was inspired by a real historical pirate nation: Nassau. During the Golden Age of Piracy, the strongest pirate factions from the Caribbean Islands allied with one another, eventually forming the pirate nation.

