This document contains information about Butchers Bridge.

Butcher's Bridge
Titles
Alias(es)
Murder Bridge
Sociocultural characteristics
Nation(s)
 Bilgewater
Physical characteristics
General environment(s)
Shambled port city
Island(s)
Serpent Isles
Universe(s)
 Runeterra Prime

 Butcher's Bridge is located inside Bilgewater and is a pathway leading towards the Temple of Nagakabouros.


Lore
Related Champions
 Gangplank required aid from Illaoi.
 Hecarim is a specter that attacked Bilgewater during the Harrowing and laid waste to the port of Grey Harbor.
 Illaoi is a temple priestess of Nagakabouros that defended Bilgewater against the Black Mist.
 Kalista is a specter that punishes betrayers in Bilgewater.
 Karthus is a specter that attacked a Bilgewater ship.
 Lucian defended Bilgewater against the Black Mist.
 Miss Fortune defended Bilgewater against the Black Mist.
 Olaf defended Bilgewater against the Black Mist.
 Tahm Kench is a glutton that preys on victims from Bilgewater.
 Thresh is a specter that attacked Bilgewater during the Harrowing.
History
Burning Tides
For more details, see Burning Tides / The Reckoning
Burning Ship, Burning Tides.

"This is just the beginning.
I want everyone loyal to him brought to answer.
I want the heads of his lieutenants mounted on my wall.
Burn everything that bears his mark.
And I want his corpse." -  Miss Fortune[1]

For many of those fleeing justice, debt, or persecution, Bilgewater is a city of new beginnings. But for some, the past is something you can never escape.  Tobias Twisted Fate, hired by an  unknown benefactor was tasked to steal and return a Crimson-Coil dagger from one of Captain Gangplank's warehouses located in Rat Town's Slaughter Docks. Easily avoiding the detection of the Jagged Hooks gang, Twisted Fate managed to infiltrate the warehouse, only to be confronted by his old partner,  Malcolm Graves.

Flamed with rage of his partners betrayal, Graves started shooting at at Tobias in an effort to settle the score with him. With Gangplank's warehouse burning and with the pirate captain's thugs swarming, the resolution of Graves' and Twisted Fate's long-simmering feud threatens to engulf the entire city in flames. Informed by the destruction of his warehouse,  Gangplank set off the catch both of the perpetrators of this act.

Both Graves and Twisted Fate tried to flee from the wrath of the Pirate King but with no success. Gangplank tortured them until he tried to publicly execute them in front of the whole city for their misbehavior. Hearing the news of this event,  Sarah Fortune plans set in motion and would confront Gangplank for the deaths of her parents. Graves managing to hide one of Twisted Fate's card, snatched during their previous fight around the city, from the pirate thugs, both he and TF managed to fight there way trough hoards of enemies before they escaped, but not until they set Gangplank's ship in flames.

 Gangplank surviving the destruction of his ship.

While Twisted Fate and Graves have escaped, in the aftermath of the destruction of the Dead Pool, Gangplank's spoils-filled warehouses have been plundered, and those who followed the dread pirate have forfeited their allegiance. Bilgewater devours itself as the streets ring with the shrieks of the desperate and the dying. A war started by the spread of three words: Gangplank is dead. Miss Fortune takes the opportunity to purge the city of anyone that was loyal to the dreaded pirate.

Despite receiving horrific injuries in the explosion, Gangplank survived. Having lost everything from the attack,  Gangplank sought out the help from Illaoi. By passing Illaoi's test, he have deemed worthy at the eyes of her God. Sporting a multitude of fresh scars, and with a newly crafted metal arm to replace his amputated limb, he is now determined to rebuild his strength, reclaim what he sees as rightfully his, and ruthlessly punish all those who turned against him.

Shadow and Fortune
For more details, see Shadow and Fortune / Shadow and Fortune.
With the fall of Gangplank, Bilgewater descends into chaos as old rivalries are settled in blood while gang warfare threatens to tear the city apart.  Miss Fortune, the leading figure of this uprising, has systematically been removing all of  Gangplank's former or continuing allies so as to assure her spot as the ruler of Bilgewater. During one of her excursions, she was stopped by a well known and respected priestess of the God Nagakabouros,  Illaoi. She warned Sarah to stop her foolish behavior and prepare for the coming Harrowing which she has foreseen.

As a fisherman and a warrior of the Freljord,  Olaf desired for worthy battles and even worthier deaths. The Krakenwyrm creature, one of his recent killings, was to be sold to one of many Bilgewater's slaughters.

Amidst the constant chaos of the city streets, the young Gun Templar known as  Lucian was preparing for the Harrowing's arrival.

The Harrowing comes to Bilgewater (by Riot Artist Patrick Faulwetter)

During the next evening, the Harrowing arrived at Bilgewater and its surrounding area in an attempt to purge and rip the souls out of every single person within the city. Undead spirits flew across the night sky and shrouded the city in a dark mist of damned shrieking souls of the Shadow Isles. People fled, coward, or prayed to the Bearded Lady for the The Black Mist not to take them. With each citizen and living thing killed, a new undead arose. The carcass of the Krakenwyrm arose seemingly wanting to finish its fight with its slayer.

During that time,  Thresh, the servant of the Black Mist had been seeking out new victims and souls for his collection. Unbeknownst to him, he was being hunted down by Lucian. Enraged by the presence of his wife's killer,  Lucian swore to defeat the monster and finally rid the world of its torment. In the end, Thresh managed to escape his pursuer after a short and tense battle. As a parting gift of further torment, Thresh had conveyed that the soul of his wife, Senna, was still trapped inside his lantern. Lucian shocked and with a new burning passion for revenge and conclusion, would continue his purge of the undead while also seeking out to save the soul of his dead wife.

 Olaf,  Lucian, and  Miss Fortune and her crew all meeting in the most weirdest of circumstances after a brawling fight with the undead which lead them to one another. Remembering the advice Illaoi gave her, Miss Fortune proposed that they head towards the Temple of Nagakabouros and to seek out the help of its priestess. When traversing the Butcher's Bridge, they were confronted at the temple's entrance by  Hecarim, the Black Mist's main general. Separated and barely escaping with their lives, they managed to get inside the temple where some of the surviving citizens prayed with Illaoi for Nagakabouroses salvation.

As the mist and the enemy army poured into the temple,  Illaoi, the Kraken Priestess with the help of her God able to fend of the advancing undead army and liberate Bilgewater from threat of the Harrowing.

Despite many losses, the city managed to live through the night. Miss Fortune and Lucian, now bestowed with a new goal and purpose, had parted their ways and assured each other luck. With Olaf surviving its second encounter with the undead Krakenwyrm, he had also parted Bilgewater, seeking out new challenges and worthy battles.


Wildlife

The Land and coastal areas house an large assortment of astounding creatures, such as: Wharf Rats and  Scuttler Crabs.
There are also more mundane creatures inhabiting the coastlines and docks such as seagulls.
Various monsters from across Runeterra are shipped through the black market, trained extensively and sold as living commodities for entertainment, industrial use or simply as loyal underlings. The illegal trade is especially prevalent in a pirate haven such as Bilgewater. As is the principle in the black market trade, those who pay more Krakens undoubtedly get better monsters than those who pay less. Examples of these mercenary beasts are:  Ironbacks,  Ocklepods,  Plundercrabs, and  Razorfins.
Ironbacks
Warf Rat, Ocklepod, Plundercrab, and Ironback.

For more detail, see Ironback.
 Ironbacks are squat bipedal creatures that resemble turtles or tortoises. Though not as tall as a human adult, they are far wider and more heavily-built. When domesticated and used for combat, they act as siege engines. Their stout strength can tear down whole structures with ease; and when outfitted with armor to complement their thick hide, they can endure the most grievous assaults.

Wharf Rat
A Warf Rat and her young.

For more detail, see Razorfin.
 Wharf Rats a terrifying blend of shark and rat commonly found on the docks of Bilgewater. These creatures are larger than dogs and are known to prey upon drunks and lone fishermen on moonless nights. They often travel in packs, and are easily capable of biting a man's leg off.

Aquatic
In Bilgewater one can come across many astounding creatures brought from the dark and mysterious Guardian's Sea, such as: Dragon-Sharks, Sea Serpents, Giant Squid, Four-eyed Shark Creature and Kraken.
There are also more mundane creatures inhabiting the sea, coastlines and docks such as: octopi, hammerhead sharks, devilfish, clams and fish.
Hammerhead Sharks
They are an ocean dwelling species of sharks native to the Guardian's Sea and Bilgewater. Their brown hide is rough, almost scale like. They head is in the shape of a hammer with two pairs of eyes and also have five fins for movement.

Giant Squid
Giant Squids are a deep-ocean dwelling species of squid native to the Guardian's Sea. They tend to be the size of a house, although some are said to grow even bigger, and can sometimes attack smaller ships. They are also usually hunted for either food or sport, the latter of which is just as dangerous as the former.

Krakens
Krakens are large serpent/octopi-like species that have been sighted in the Guardian's Sea. They possess a set of tentacles and five eyes, two pairs and one large one at the center of the forehead. The mythos behind this species is so well known on the Blue Flame Islands and that many structures in honor of this species were constructed by the original denizens of Bilgewater. Their image has been used for the currency of Bilgewater, know as Krakens Golden Krakens.

Ocklepods
For more detail, see Ocklepod.
 Ocklepods are crustacean-like creatures that magically hover above the ground unassisted. They either inhabit or have been outfitted with a metallic helm with submarine periscope jutting above, the creature's eyes peek through the helm and periscope. This creature is mostly used for intelligence-gathering and support roles as they are capable of magically shielding nearby allies as well as revealing distances. This is especially infuriating in attrition wars as the creature's telepathic sight could easily reveal an ambush and its shielding capability is able to see troops through the thickest of fires.

Plundercrabs
For more detail, see Plundercrab.
 Plundercrabs are large crustaceans that wear cannon-mounted parapets as their shell. It is unknown whether they inhabit the said weaponry naturally, or are purposely outfitted. Used as living artillery pieces, they lay down cannon fire from afar. They seem very intelligent for an animal, as they can trained to pick out high-priority targets to focus fire upon.

Scuttle Crabs
A  Rift Scuttler.

For more detail, see Rift Scuttler.
 Scuttler Crabs or Rift Scuttlers live in the fresh waters of Valoran and can be found near the docks of Bilgewater and in Summoner's Rift. They are small green-shelled crustaceans with 3 pairs of legs and one pair of front claws. They sometimes bury themselves into the muck of the river to avoid predators and are known to either avoid or flee from dangers. To confer peaceful resolution (hence the elusive pacifist nickname) to the force that subdues it, it will grant them a boon: a persistent field around it that grants vision and magical speed to the aggressor and its allies. If corrupted by The Void, a Rift Scuttler turns into a  Rift Herald.

Sea Serpent
Sea Serpents are a large species of ocean dwelling serpents native to the Guardian's Sea. They presents on the sea is so well known be the denizens of Bilgewater that their nations crest and Silver Serpents currency is a Sea Serpent. They can also be summoned by serpent callers. One account from the Harrowing records the might of these creatures, having halted the progress of the Black Mist before it reached Bilgewater, though the beast was slain in the process.

