This document contains information about the Shuriman Continent.

Shuriman Continent

Titles
Other name(s)
Shurima
Alias(es)
Southern  Runeterran Continent
Sociocultural characteristics
Nation(s)
Aurma
Harelport
 Icathia
 Ixtal
Kumangra
Mudtown
Nazumah
 Noxus
 Piltover
 Shurima
 Targon
Venaru
 Zaun
Physical characteristics
General environment(s)
Temperate
Tropical
Savannah
Arid desert
Barren wasteland
Mountainous
Universe(s)
 Runeterra Prime


Shuriman Continent is the southern continent of Runeterra. The most predominant nation on this continent is Shurima from which it gained its name. This continent is now connected to Valoran through a small artificial land bridge where modern day Piltover and Zaun are located. This continent was part of Valoran before the event that shattered the continent into two.


History
The Rune Wars
Main article: Timeline
Centuries ago, magical artifacts called 'World Runes' have been rediscovered. Over the following decades after such event, knowledge of the Runes began to spread as more were unearthed. The world's brightest minds studied the ancient glyphs, attempting to determine the powers they possessed. Few could even begin to understand the importance of their origins, or the sheer power held within them. Some surmised that the Runes were integral to the creation of Runeterra itself. The first use of these mysterious artifacts proved catastrophic, as they reshaped the landscape of entire nations. Mistrust quickly grew as those who knew of the Runes imagined such “Makers' Might” being used as a weapon. Conflicts later related to these magical artifacts were known as the Rune Wars.

Open warfare raged across Runeterra. The first horrors of the Rune Wars sparked fear and aggression among those who now realized the power at their command.  Ryze and his master, Tyrus, have sought out to lock away every World Rune beyond the reach of man for the protection of Runeterra. Some complied with their pleas, others dismissed them due to their new found powers and influence. After an incident with Tyrus, Ryze later on continued his journey alone in gathering all Runic artifacts so as to prevent another Rune War from starting and possibly destroying the world.

Locations



Map of Shuriman (Continent)
There are many regions and settlements on the Shuriman Continent. The most well-known are:

North Shurima	Aurma ·  Noxus · Kumangra	
East Shurima	Harelport ·  Ixtal · Shuriman Jungle · Kiilash Village · Mudtown · Venaru
South Shurima	 Icathia · Nazumah ·  Void
West Shurima	 Targon
Central Shurima	 Shurima
