This document contains information about Shurima.

Titles
Other name(s)
Empire of Shurima
Alias(es)
Fallen Desert Empire
Sociocultural characteristics
Nation(s)
 Shurima
Capital
Nerimazeth (Historical)
The Sun Disc (Modern)
Language(s)
Piltovan
Shuriman (Historical)
Shuriman (Modern)
Targonian
Vastayan
Va-Nox
Religion(s)
Celestials
 Janna (Historical)
 Fading Icon (Historical)
 Kindred (Wolf)
 Rammus (Disciples Of The Armordillo)
The Great Weaver
The Void (Cult of The Void)
Demonym(s)
Shuriman
Government(s)
Divine Empire
Ruler(s)
 Azir (Historical / Rising to power)
 Xerath
Legislature(s)
Emperor (Historical)
Hierophant
Hazir
Hagyett
Hagyos
City Councils
Tribal Councils
Vastayan Councils
Attitude towards magic
Covet
Level of technology
Unknown
Establishment history
Westward Migration (6000 - 5000 BN)
Golden Age of Shurima (5000 - 3400 BN)
Void War (2500 - 2000 BN)
Fall of Shurima (2500 - 2000 BN)
Great Darkin War (2000 - 550 BN)
Rune Wars (25 - 3 BN)
Revival of the Sun Disc (989 AN - Present)
Currency
Securi
Physical characteristics
General environment(s)
Arid desert
Continent(s)
Shurima
Universe(s)
 Runeterra Prime
 Runeterra Legacy

 The empire of Shurima was once a thriving civilization that spanned a vast desert. After an era of growth and prosperity, the  fall of its gleaming capital left the empire in ruins. Over millennia, tales of Shurima's glorious city became myth and religion among the descendants of the scattered survivors.

Most of the  nomadic inhabitants of Shurima search for basic sustenance in an unforgiving land. Some defend small outposts built around a few oases. Others hunt buried riches among the ruins of the fallen empire, or obtain  mercenary work, taking coin for their deeds before disappearing back into the sands. Now, the tribes are stirred by whispers from the heart of the desert: the city of Shurima has  risen again.

Lore
Shurima was once a powerful empire that spanned the farthest reaches of the vast southern continent. After an era of expansion and prosperity, its  last emperor was betrayed by his  closest friend, and the empire fell to ruin. Its gleaming capital was all but destroyed in an earth-shaking cataclysm and the empire was left in ruins, its people scattered and its mighty cities devoured by the sand. Now Shurima is a barren wasteland, an unforgiving desert where only the strongest survive and its people cling to the few remaining oases and strips of fertile land around the coast.

In the millennia since Shurima's fall, tales of its glorious capital and gleaming  sun disc became little more than myths and debased religions among the  descendants of the empire's few survivors. Most of Shurima's inhabitants now dwell in small tribal outposts clustered near water or built upon the bones of ancient cities, venerating the glories of the past. Some hunt buried riches among the ruins of the fallen empire or earn a living as  sellswords, warriors for hire who fight for rich paymasters before disappearing into the sands. Others try to forget the past, looking to the future and nations across the ocean as partners in trade.

Yet the ancient myths of Shurima do not rest easy and are stirring once more. Whispering winds from the heart of the desert speak of mighty cities rising from the earth, of a  golden warrior marching at the head of an  army of sand. Rumors spread of ancient heroes reborn, of a war between gods that will shake the very foundations of the world.

The city of Shurima has risen, and nothing will ever be the same.[1]

Champions of Shurima
Akshan
Amumu
Azir
K'Sante
Nasus
Rammus
Renekton
Sivir
Skarner
Taliyah
Xerath
Other Related Champions
 Aatrox was an Ascended before Shurima's fall.
 Cassiopeia hired  Sivir to raid the Tomb of the Emperors and later was transformed by a Shuriman curse.
 Draven accompanied  Viego to Shurima in search of a fetter.
 Ezreal discovered a magical gauntlet in a Shuriman tomb.
 Janna protects Shurimans and other sailors around the seas near the Serpent Isles.
 Jax was an Icathian who fought against Ancient Shurima, in his city's final battle before being swallowed by the Void.
 Kai'Sa is originally Shuriman but spent a decade trapped in caverns corrupted by the Void.
 Karma accompanied  Viego to Shurima in search of a fetter.
 Kassadin is a Shuriman who hunts " the Prophet" and Voidborn in Icathia, while also searching for  his daughter.
 Lucian came to Shurima in search of the Absolver.
 Malphite was created by the Ascended Ne'Zuk, original wielder of  Ezreal's gauntlet
 Malzahar was a Shuriman seer turned leader of the "Cult of the Void".
 Myisha gave the Shurimans the knowledge to seal away the Darkin during The Great Darkin War.
 Pantheon fought against the Darkin during The Great Darkin War.
 Rek'Sai is a Xer'Sai Voidborn queen terrorizing the Sai'Kahleek.
 Rhaast was an Ascended before Shurima's fall.
 Rumble scared a bully with his mech in Nashramae.
 Ryze is an ancient archmage who has wandered though Shurima in his hunt for World Runes.
 Samira was born in Shurima, but emigrated to Noxus after her home of Amakra was destroyed.
 Soraka visited Shurima in the past.
 Varus was an Ascended before Shurima's fall, and is currently searching for a Darkin sister (presumably Valeeva) in a Shuriman tomb.
 Viego came to Shurima in search of a fetter.
 Yasuo was a mentor to  Taliyah.
 Yuumi traveled to Shurima in search for her Master, Norra.
 Zilean fought against Ancient Shurima before the fall of Icathia.
History
Construction of the Sun Disc
After being granted knowledge by the Targonians, ancient Shurimans build a Sun Disc in Nerimazeth, the prototype fail for unknown reasons, but, now with the help of Ixtal mages, a new Sun Disc is built on what would turn into the capital of the Shuriman empire. After it's construction Setaka becomes one of the first Ascended and with the  Chalicar, a weapon forged by cosmic forces and brought from the celestial realm, she would lead the Ascended host to centuries of conquest across the continent, with Ixtal being one of the first independent nations to join the Shuriman empire.

A Dire Threat to Ancient Shurima
The Sun Disc was ancient long before the pinnacle of the Shuriman Empire.[2]  Nasus and  Renekton knew of its power, and used it to ascend in order to face a dire threat from mysterious beings.[3]

The Icathian rebellion and the Void War
Main article: Where Icathia Once Stood
After centuries under Shuriman domination, the Icathians organized a rebellion against the empire, launching attacks against the eastern estates, even killing an Ascended at their borders after toppling half a mountain. But as the empire armies marched, the Kohari forces of Icathia retreated to the capital. In the battle that followed, the Icathians seemed surprisingly close to victory as the slave warriors and mercenaries of Shurima fled, but the tides changed when the 12 Ascended at the head of the army joined the battle, without any other options, the Icathians unleashed a "weapon" they had found underground.
In that moment, Icathia fate was sealed, the Void was summoned, destroying the Shuriman and Icathian armies all the same together with Setaka the Warrior-queen of the Ascended host. Few survived the event and the war that would follow would be the greatest fought by Shurima, leaving the entire region of Icathia as a barren wasteland.

Afraid of the power of the Void, the Ixtal mages would use their elemental magic to hide Ixaocan in the wildness, isolating themselves from the outside world as the Ascended fought to seal the Void rifts.

In the end, Shurima would come victorious, at a great cost, and the horrors seen in those battles would afflict the mind of the surviving Ascended for long.

Twilight of the Gods
Main article: Twilight of the Gods
 Myisha, Aspect of Twilight and Change, led the Ascended Ta'anari to Nasus, who gave the panther Ascended the location of the  Chalicar of Setaka. With this, Ta'anari hopes to stop the civil war between the remaining Sunborn, so he calls for a gathering of the Ascended and darkin. Enakai (tiger), Syphax (chameleon), Zigantus (bull), Xuuyan (turtle), Shabaka and Shabak (raven twins), Valeeva (appearance unknown), Cebotaru (wolf), and Naganeka (snake) came to this gathering.
Ta'anari proposed that the next wielder of the  Chalicar would be Sivunas Alahair, the Bringer of Rains, one of  Azir's remaining descendants. Xuuyan disagreed and tried to take the  Chalicar by force; Ta'anari was forced to kill him. The other Ascended and darkin present also disagreed with his plan, so with the aid of  Myisha, he used the Chalicar to funnel his own and Myisha's powers to release a huge burst of moonlight.

Shabaka and Shabake were vaporized instantly, and Syphax, Zigantus and Enakai followed a few moments later. Ta'anari's own Ascension was reverted and he was human once again, though blinded by the process.  Myisha later cut his heart out, killing him. Naganeka, Valeeva and Cebotaru managed to escape still as Ascended.

Ta'anari's three warrior former-queens - Teushpa, Sulpae and Idri-Mi - were now responsible for having their weaponsmiths seal away the Darkin, under  Myisha's tutelage.

Descent into the Tomb
Main article: Descent into the Tomb
Narrated by  Nasus[4]
Cassiopeia hiring Sivir for an expedition into the Shuriman desert

"The tragic fall of Shurima was nothing comparing to the tragedy of its rise from the grave.

In a market at the edge of a desert. A stranger appears.  Cassiopeia, a noblewoman from Noxus looking to hire a guide to take her to the fabled lost city. But not just any guide, she hires a owner of a legendary blade, the mercenary called  Sivir. Sivir gathers her band of sell-swords and sets out into the desert to find the very bones of Shurima.

Five days beneath the broiling sun a scout spots towers juddering upwards and a stairway leading underground. They climb down, into the darkness.

Ancient treasures gleam in the torch-light, even Sivir is astonished at the grandeur of the ruins. Her men head deeper in only to stumble into traps and be eviscerated. Sivir is stunned with horror, but Cassiopeia does not flinch. She sees only the statue of a huge serpent silently guarding the door to the tomb of the Emperors and smiles.

The ancient weapon is a key. Cassiopeia betrays Sivir. She picks up Sivir's blade, puts it into the lock. The guardian's curse is triggered. The stone serpent comes alive, impales Cassiopeia in its jaws - the venom sears her flesh like acid.

The Tomb door opens.  Renekton emerges, the brother I loved and locked away, twisted beyond insanity, followed by  Xerath, an architect of his torment. My failure is complete.

Sivir drags herself away, life blood flooding from her wound and then succumbs to darkness... "

Rise of the Ascended
Main article: Rise of the Ascended
Narrated by  Nasus[5]
Sivir in the Oasis of the Dawn

Ascended Azir

"As  Sivir lies betrayed and bleeding, something incredible occurs. For though she does not know it, Sivir is the last in the bloodline of  Azir, Shurima's lost emperor. And as her blood soaks into the ancient sands, a deep magic sparks to life. Resurrection!

First Azir's mind, then his body. Snatched back from oblivion to be reborn. Then he sees Sivir, wonders at her face, he sees himself in this daughter of Shurima. In that moment, he has no thought of empires or rituals. He only knows: she needs his help.

He must take her to the Oasis of the Dawn - the Mother of Life. He smells the waters - smells of life. He prays he is in time. He does not dream that he, Shurima's greatest emperor, can at long last earn his Ascension and bring back his broken city. He dares not dream that if he can save her...Azir can save them all."

The Sands have shifted
Shurima's people return to their ancestral home

Shurima is resurrected, and Runeterra's future is forever altered.  Xerath and  Renekton have been unleashed from the Tomb of the Emperors.  Nasus, haunted by his brother's heroic sacrifice, is relentlessly pursued by Renekton in his mad thirst for vengeance. Bristling with power and resentment, Xerath plots to reforge Valoran in the fires of revolution. The serpent's curse is the terrible price of  Cassiopeia's ambition, but it also promises a power she never imagined.  Azir, Ascended ruler of a fallen civilization, envisions a new Shuriman empire, while his descendant  Sivir, ever the mercenary, looks to turn the situation to her advantage. Shurima is a land of mystery... but some mysteries refuse to remain buried.[6]

Bloodline
Main article: Bloodline
Taliyah, the Stoneweaver

Having returned to Shurima after hearing word of the empire's restoration,  Taliyah made her way from the coastal city of Bel'Zhun around the borders of the Sai, heading to Kenethet and then Vekaura on her journey to the capital. On the way she found a fatally wounded Sivir, and brought her to safety within the city's borders.  Nasus, who had been searching for the remnants of the Emperor's lineage since Azir's return, also found his way to Vekaura, but before he could meet his intended target Xerath assaulted the city with a force of mind controlled warriors from scattered tribes, and his own incredible power.

As Xerath bombarded the city and his soldiers laid waste to its inhabitants, Nasus finally found what he was looking for in Sivir and her savior Taliyah. He told Sivir of her importance; with her blood having restored Shurima, she would likely be instrumental to the nation's future, but Sivir had never cared for that ancient legacy and told Nasus she wanted no part in it. After brief words between the Ascended warrior, the mercenary and the stone mage, Nasus gave Sivir a magical pendant to keep herself concealed from Xerath as they escaped the city before going to face the powerful magus himself. Xerath had come to end Azir's lineage completely, and the two clashed in a battle the likes of which Shurima had not seen in ages. Though Nasus was able to stand against Xerath for a while, it did not last, and he was felled by his foe's immense magical power, but Xerath did not want Nasus to die just yet. He had his enemy's death planned out, and it was  Renekton who would kill Nasus. Knowing a confrontation between the brothers was inevitable, and knowing how durable Nasus was, Xerath brought down the buildings of Verauka upon the curator's head, burying him completely before departing.

Thanks to the magic of Taliyah many of the city's denizens survived; sheltered by shields of woven stone. Nasus was among them, and while grateful for her help, he had done his job. Sivir was safe for now, and he looked to the future, hoping against hope that he could save Renekton from his insanity, so that the two of them could defeat Xerath together.

Locations
Shurima is an arid territory that covers most of the southern continent, also called Shurima. Many men have gone mad beneath the glare of the Shuriman sun, the source of the power of the Ascended.. It is also the location of the newly resurrected Shuriman Empire, a vast civilization that bloomed millennia ago and is now rising again. A few of the cities on its northern coast are Noxian territory.

The current well known locations encompassing Shurima are:

The Sun Disc
The Sun Disc 1
Fashioned under the guidance of the Targonians, the great Sun Disc brought the favor of divine, celestial powers to Shurima. Once it was complete, it is said the waters of life flowed through the canyons surrounding the city, bringing life to the desert. For eons, the sun worshippers of Shurima owed their society's prosperity to the incredible power of the sun. Thanks to the prodigious disk that hovered above the capital city, ancient Shurimans could wield raw celestial magic to make their land more bountiful. The Sun Disc was the center of all Shuriman culture; it permeated every aspect, from religion to icons to dress and so on.

An oasis in the desert, it fell to ruins after  Azir's failed Ascension, but has risen again since the emperor was revived by Sivir's blood. In its prime, it was the center of Shuriman society. Because of its immense importance as the center of trade and culture of the empire, many cultural, educational centers and markets bringing goods from all over the Empire sprung up. It also housed special burial grounds for the most influential of its citizens, such as The Tomb of the Emperors. The city is divided by ringed districts and city levels. The city's wealthiest citizens lived in the top rings of the city, while middle and lower classes (with slaves) lived mostly in settlements built on the rocky cliff sides of the outer and lower rings. The Palace of Ten Thousand Pillars, Scholar's Palace, Temple of the Sun and Oasis of the Dawn are located at the center of the city. The most important road in the city was the Emperor's Way. The city was built around the ancient  Sun Disc that floats above The Circle of Ascension and the city itself. The city also had the most advanced irrigation system of its time, seemingly unsurpassed until recently. Floating gardens decorated with palms and other flora protected its many terraces from the burning sun.

Circle of Ascension: Located at the very center of the city, above the Grand Temple, Oasis of the Dawn and the Imperial Place, The Circle of Ascension is the main focal point from which the privileged and accomplished harnessed the powers of the  Sun Disc and became Ascended beings. It was also the epicenter of Ancient Shurima's destruction and its modern rise from the grave. The circle is accessible via the Stairs of Ascension and the Emperor's Way.
Oasis of the Dawn: Described as the Mother of Life, the oasis is located near The Tomb of the Emperors and was the city's main source of fresh water. The water is infused with unknown magical properties and has immense healing powers. It is said that any edge dipped into this pool will stay sharper and strike truer than any other sword. It had almost all dried up until the newly resurrected  Azir brought a dying  Sivir to what little remained. The waters' powers healed her fatal wounds. This act of selflessness from Azir made him worthy of Ascension, which ultimately revived his broken city.[7]
Tomb of the Emperors: Deep in the capital city lies the Tomb of the Emperors. For the last millennium it has acted as the makeshift prison of  Xerath and  Renekton. It is guarded by the statue of a huge serpent. When the tomb opened the serpent came to life, impaling  Cassiopeia on its fangs, its venom transforming her into a terrifying half-snake creature.[8]
The Great Sai
The Great Sai Map
The Great Sai, or Shuriman Wastes is a large desert spanning most of east, south, and west Shurima. The fallen empire has littered the dunes with ruins.

Stretching out for hundreds of miles, the Endless Plain is a desolate wasteland that has claimed countless lives over the centuries. Few who attempt to cross it are ever seen again—if the relentless, burning heat and lack of water doesn't kill them, the predators and savage raiders that emerge under the cover of darkness likely will.

A  mysterious creature can be found wandering the desert. Skarner defends the entrance to a realm deep beneath the Shuriman wastes; what he protects, no one knows. Buried tombs also hold ancient secrets;  Amumu rose from such a tomb, and in another,  Ezreal claimed an Ascended artifact of incredible mystical power.

Kenethet, Vekaura, Nerimazeth, Zuretta, Astrologer's Tower, and the Zoantha Cascade are located in this desert wasteland.

North Shurima
Nashramae
Other known locations in north Shurima are: Parnesa, Odyn Valley, Zuretta, etc.

Bel'zhun: This northern city is currently controlled by Noxus, but has a large rebel insurgency against Noxus. Known as the Suns of Bel'Zhun, the group frequently trades weapons with Clan Medarda of Piltover.
Kalamanda: The closest city to the Crystal Scar, situated on the northwestern coast of Shurima. The city's primary exports are gold and sing-stones (or sun-stones).
Nashramae: This northern coastal city, currently run by Hagyett Sabja. The people of Nashramae are devoted to preserving the ways of the past, celebrating their ancestors and the Ascended. It holds a festival yearly celebrating  Rammus, where thousands gather to roll and somersault around the city. Its primary exports are woven goods, like mats and bolts of cloth. Traveling on the back of a dormun from Nashramae to the capital of Shurima would take approximately 65 days.[9]
Market of Illumination: It is believed that an elderly mason was inspired by a profound, yet brief conversation with Rammus, and constructed an enormous marketplace which became the bustling heart of Nashramae. That market is connected to Vekaura streets.
Sun Disc Replica: The prize of the city is the ornate, non-magical, replica of the Sun Disc, built to honor Shurima's fallen and as a statement of hope that the sun might one day bless them again.
Tereshni: This Shuriman port city is currently controlled by Noxus and led by Steward Ta'Fik. The city's best-known export is Shuriman Azirite (aka blood glass), named after the current Shuriman Emperor,  Azir.
Urzeris: Located in the northern coast of Shurima, this port city is currently occupied by Noxus, and its current governor is Steward Zikka Taum'Vin. Its most well known trade good is Urzeris Salt. Marcus Du Couteau with his family was stationed close to the governor of Uzeris before his assassination. Both  Katarina and  Cassiopeia lived here during their younger years.
East Shurima
Nasus and Ryze at the Archives
Other known locations in east Shurima are: The Great Sai, Astrologer's Tower, etc.

Kenethet: An eastern desert city where  Taliyah performed her weaving abilities during her initial travels beyond Shurima. A girl named Shoorai, who would later met  Malphite, witnessed Taliyah's weaver performance.
World Rune Archives: Long before Shurima rose again from the sands, Ryze and the Ascended scholar Nasus delved into a ruined archive beneath the Great Sai... and awakened its protector.
South Shurima
Marrowmark Market
Other known locations in south Shurima are: The Great Sai, Antathir, Bai-Zhek, Saabara, Old Zuretta, etc.

Icathia: Located south of the Sai Kahleek, the ancient kingdom of Icathia was once a vassal state under the authority of the Sun Empire during the height of their dominance across Shurima millennia ago. In time the Icathians began an uprising against their oppressive masters. In a desperate attempt to save themselves from the Sun Empire's wrath, they foolishly opened a rift into the Void, which unleashed itself upon every living thing it came in contact with. The lands all around the damned city are still a deserted waste, and its very existence has been struck from the history records and maps of Shurima.
Nazumah: A city-state situated on a lush oasis. The people of Nazumah fled southward to escape the tyranny of Ascended and built their city on the only water source for miles, after claiming it from the local beasts.
Sai Kahleek: The Sai is a harsh, southern desert defined by rolling plains of sand, sharp stones and eerie silence. Located between the edge of the jungles and the capital, it is for the most part, completely uninhabited besides the Xer'Sai Voidborn and their queen  Rek'Sai, who have claimed vast swaths of the desert. Traders and armed caravans will go hundreds of miles out of their way to avoid her territory, though cunning bandits have been known to lure the unwary into her killing grounds.[10] The ancient nation Kahleek may have been located here.
Kahleek River: A river flows from the Mother of Life river from Vekaura, it recently sprung to life after the capitals rise from the sand.
Vekaura: A city built on the confluence of Mother of Life and Kahleek rivers, it was the birthplace of  Azir's mother. It was recently decimated by  Xerath during the events of Bloodline.
Marrowmark: Trader Settlement Erected in the ribcage of some long-dead desert behemoth.
Marrowmark Market: It is said that anything under the sun can be found in the bazaars of Marrowmark, for the right price.
Xolan: A ruined city located somewhere on the Sai Kahleek, it once was the place of the massive statue of the God-Warrior Xolaani.
Sai Faraj: Once a vassal state of Shurima known for its astromancers, after the fall it became a barren desert also called as "Endless Plain". Few who attempt to cross it are ever seen again—if the relentless, burning heat and lack of water doesn't kill them, the predators and savage raiders that emerge under the cover of darkness likely will. The ancient nation Faraj may have been located here.
City of Gardens: This once thriving, beautiful city was destroyed during the apocalyptic Rune Wars. It is said that the entire population was annihilated in one terrible night, the city utterly leveled... and all that remains now lies in ruin. Kala and  Ryze ventured to through this city during the events of The Burning Lands.
Zoantha Cascade: The shifting tides of the desert has been known to carve paths through bare rock, tumbling over the cliff faces in massive sandfalls. Traditionally, Shurimans toss beloved objects into the sands as gifts to the Ascended. As a result, such falls are often lucrative spots for treasure hunters.
Nerimazeth: In a time before the Sun Empire rose to prominence, the old city of Nerimazeth was the capital of Shurima. It was here that Sun Worshipers made the first iteration of a  Sun Disc. Due to unspecified reasons, this was unsuccessful and the city became a vassal state enslaved to the rising Empire which had accomplished the Ascension ritual. It wasn't until  Azir's death, that spurred surviving Ascended warriors to seek revenge for the collapse of their glorious empire. Enraged with spite the Ascended massacred Nerimazeth's inhabitants and burned the city that produced the very  slave who assassinated their emperor. With his return,  Xerath has proclaimed himself the new Emperor of Shurima and made the decayed city of Nerimazeth his capital.
Renek River: A river that flows from the Oasis of the Dawn, it shared the name with the ancient nation Renek which may have been located in its river bank.  Nasus and  Renekton may have been from the area surrounding it, the latter may have been named after the river itself.
Zirima: Zirima is a merchant camp in southern Shurima where traders and explorers often gather before venturing into the Great Sai.  Kassadin resided here for a long time after the destruction of his home, before he found out about the  Void Prophet.
Valley of Song: This remote pass takes its name from the disorienting whistling that results when the wind blows hard enough through the hollow rock structures. Many unwary travelers have found themselves at the mercy of the deafened marauders who prowl the valley by night.
West Shurima
Other known locations of west Shurima are: The Great Sai, Amakra, The Sun Disc, etc.

Saikhal is a settlement located in western Shurima. Its river is a tributary that connects to the Mother of Life River. It is the birthplace of  Xerath.
Path of Dust: Once called the Water Road during the times of ancient Shurima, this is the main road that leads from the town square to the river shores of Saikhal.
Tomb of Ne'Zuk: A lost Tomb of a once powerful Ascended warlord. It is the location where  Ezreal found his gauntlet.
Wildlife
Brackern
A Brackern known as  Skarner

Within a hidden valley live the Brackern: a species of sentient, crystalline scorpions with great magical power. For thousands of years they lived peacefully in this secluded corner of Shurima, but when the Rune Wars ravaged Runeterra the Brackern hid themselves by hibernating beneath the earth to wait out the devastation, and hopefully wait out the extinction of the human race. In recent times the sleeping Brackern were discovered by thieves who stole several namestones from their bodies; stones which are critical to the livelihood and culture of the Brackern, so much so that those with stolen stones face immediate death if they should wake, and many cannot even be roused from their slumber.  Skarner, one of the strongest Brackern, was able to wake himself and has set out to reclaim all of the stolen namestones while also ensuring that no humans ever find the valley.

Dormun
Dormun 1
The Dormun are gigantic, slow-moving creatures protected with large chitinous plates covering their body. In the harsh conditions of Shurima they have evolved to survive the perpetual drought by utilizing an unknown sense to locate hidden reservoirs of water. Incidentally, certain nomadic tribes have built themselves a permanent home upon the backs of these beasts where they clean the creature and hunt any airborne pests who venture near.

Eka'Sul
Desert goats that travel in herds.

Mwatis
Mwatis are goatlike creatures with large plated casques on their heads. Mwati wool and plate are prised for felting and insulation.

Kmiros
Gigantic scarabs that roam in swarms, looking for unfortunate travelers to feed on. They seem to be common prey for  Rammus.

Outerbeasts
Main article: Voidborn
A Xer'Sai known as Rek'Sai
Beside the Xer'Sai, other creatures from the Void, referred to as 'outerbeasts', can be found in the desert.

Xer'Sai: Creatures from the Void that plague the southern deserts. They are the size of big dogs on average, but can be smaller or much bigger.  Rek'Sai, as the queen, is by far the largest and most dangerous of her species. Xer'sai burst from their small burrows and ravage anything nearby, to the detriment of desert caravans. Once dead, the Xer'sai decompose at an abnormally rapid rate and become inedible.
Ralsiji
A Ralsiji
Large and aggressive minotaur-like creatures. They are humpbacked quadrupeds with long limbs and thick horns.

Shuriman Camel
A breed of camels native to the deserts of Shurima and are used by caravans as well as common folk as primary mode of transportation. Despite being well-suited for lengthy travels in the desert landscape, they are still prey to a many predator such as the Xer'Sai.

Sandswimmers
Sandswimmers

Sandswimmers are massive quadrupedal creatures that traverse the Shuriman desert in cyclical patterns. They got their name due to their preferred method of travel. Their narrow bodies and webbed feet are perfectly design for swimming under the sand. They feed on bugs and other small creatures most desert beasts ignore. Scavengers will often memorize the predictable paths these creatures take, and jump onto their backs to ride as far as they wish.


Skallashi
Skallashi
The Skallashi are large quadrupedal herbivores. These hardy beasts of burden are common across Shurima, ideally suited to the harsh desert environment. Their key body feature is their long legs. Notoriously bad-tempered, they are nevertheless treated with great reverence. Their brown hides are often painted with sacred symbols of protection, and their horns hung with totems and charms. While these creatures are mostly used for travel and carrying heavy loads, on some larger skallashi people are able to built miniature rooms for more comfortable travel. To own one is often considered a sign of considerable prosperity.

Culture
Shurima is described as a place that had a thriving culture, not only a strong military and a powerful emperor. It had a sense of personal identity with art, music, literature, trade, magical technology and more. The people of Shurima have been emperors and warriors, slaves and scholars, enduring beneath the glare of the deser sun. Through their knowledge of the sands, their strong family bonds, and sheer determination that history will not forget them, they have survived wars that spanned many centuries.

The current inhabitants of Shurima's desert are mainly descended from the survivors of the fall of Shurima's empire. The origin of their culture reaches back to  Azir's time. During those times, slavery was a common practice in the Empire. It was so common that the entire Empire was dependent on slaves as the primary workforce. A former slave,  Xerath, tried to seek revenge for his past station, which caused the failed ascension of Azir and the downfall of the empire. Ironically, his plan was put into action right after Azir emancipated all slaves in the empire. After the fall of Ancient Shurima, the society has evolved as they eke out an existence in their harsh environment of the desert.[11] Commonly the nomads, such as  Sivir, practice tomb robbing and mercenary service. The people are also known to produce seers blessed with foresight.  Malzahar was born with such abilities.

Risen From The Sands
The southern desert is plagued by Xer'Sai, vicious monsters originating from the Void. To scout from attacks by Xer'Sai, caravans can employ Elujrav'i, or "bell riders." They can also employ Saih'kharash'i, or "sand walkers". These are poor locals who travels with the caravan, but can quickly be outrun in case of an attack by the Xer'Sai, at which point they serve as unfortunate decoys while their employers escape.[12]

In ancient times the  Sun Disc produced heroes called Ascended in times of direst threat. These beings were merely considered legends until  recently.[13]

languages
The Shuriman language has undergone many changes, as well as become more opaque, since the collapse of Shuriman society, to the point that modern Shuriman is distinct from its ancient form.

As Shurimans had conquered many other nations, the Shuriman Empire also incorporated many other ethnicities, thus diversifying the Empire culturally and linguistically.

Ancient Shurimans' names:
 Aatrox: Possibly foreign (cf. Latin atrox "fierce, savage, cruel" < ater "dull black, dark", from root PIE *h₂eh₁ter- "fire").
 Azir: Ascended Emperor; name either native or foreign (cf. Egyptian wsjr "strong" or Central Semitic *Aðir "helper").
Cebotaru: likely native Shuriman in-universe (coincidentally a Romanian surname "boot-maker" (?); cf. Old East Slavic чеботъ čebotĭ).
Enakai: likely native Shuriman in-universe. (coincidentally "raging-sea"[14][15] in Hawaiian).
 Janna, from Jan'ahrem "guardian", foreign with native suffix (?) (cf. Proto-Semitic *gnn "to protect"[16])
Moneera: possibly foreign (cf. Arabic Munira منيرة "bright, shining, luminous", from Proto-Semitic *nwr "to shine").[17]
Naganeka: foreign with native suffix (?) (from Sanskrit नग Nāga, from PIE root verb *sneg- "to crawl").
 Nasus: Scholar, tactician, & strategist, likely native Shuriman (out-of-universe, punning on Latin nasus "nose")
 Renekton: Decorated general, likely native Shuriman.
 Rhaast: Either native or foreign.
Setaka: Ascended Queen, likely native Shuriman.
Shabaka & Shabake, the twin seers: possibly foreign (cf. Semitic ɬ-b-k "to entwine").[18]
Syphax: possibly foreign (after a king of the Berber-Numidian tribe Masaesyli).
Valeeva: Likely native Shuriman.
 Varus: Likely native Shuriman (out-of-universe, a pun on Latin varus "bow-legged")
 Xerath: Native ancient Shuriman name "One Who Shares". Its modern meaning is "Devil" or "Hateful".
Xuuyan: Likely native Shuriman.
Ta'anari: Likely native Shuriman.
The name of Ta'anari's three female "life-bearers" companions, formerly foreign warriors-queens, were recorded:
Teushpa: from Iranic, compared Old Persian Tavis-paya[19] "swollen with strength"; after a Cimmerian king[20]
Idri-Mi: possibly from Semitic *ʔaddīr- "noble";[21] after king of Alalakh.
Šul-pa-e: Sumerian, literally "youthful~manly overseer of the house";[22] after a Sumerian god.
Nomenclature
It was thought for some time that all Voidborns carry names said to be in Ancient Shuriman naming convention, whereby a Voidborn individual has their unique name combined with the last syllable of their species name, being separated by an apostrophe in the middle; e.g. the  Void Burrower's name Rek'Sai consists of her unique name Rek, and Sai the last syllable of her species' name  Xer'Sai. However, this appears to not be true; in fact, we know sai means "desert," so we can perhaps infer the meaning of her and her tribe's names from this.

Void and Voidborn names:
 Cho'Gath: Likely ancient native Shuriman.
 Kai'Sa: Original name was  Kaisa before she added an apostrophe so as to be similar with other Voidborn names.
 Kha'Zix: Ancient native Shuriman name "You Face Yourself".
 Kog'Maw: Likely ancient native Shuriman.
 Rek'Sai: Ancient native Shuriman.
 Vel'Koz: Ancient native Shuriman name "To Understand By Unmaking".

Within Shurima’s urban markets, the many unique cultures of this vast continent exchange their traditions and their wares. The markets are bustling, sprawling places whose fluttering tents welcome anyone with items to sell.[23]

Treasure Hunters brave the depths of Shurima’s underground tombs to scavenge precious materials for illicit resale in the markets.[24]

Architecture
Nashramae Architecture
Nashramae: Much of the architecture of Nashramae withstood the great fall, but decades of exposure to the elements has weathered these ancient Shuriman structures. Though some younger inhabitants wish to tear down and rebuild, the elders feel this would be an insult to the heritage and bloodlines from which they came.
The Great Sun Disc: Fashioned under the guidance of the Targonians, the great Sun Disc brought the favor of divine, celestial powers to Shurima. Once it was complete, it is said the waters of life flowed through the canyons surrounding the city, bringing life to the desert. For eons, the sun worshippers of Shurima owed their society's prosperity to the incredible power of the sun. Thanks to the prodigious disk that hovered above the capital city, ancient Shurimans could wield raw celestial magic to make their land more bountiful. The Sun Disc was the center of all Shuriman culture; it permeated every aspect, from religion to icons to dress and so on.
Vekaura: In Ancient times, Stepped gardens and flowers brought from every corner of the empire garlanded its structures in vivid colors and wondrous scents. Its towers gleamed with silver and jade, and cool water flowed from the great temple, running along great aqueducts in the naive belief its bounty would never end. The passing millennia had worn the city down to its exposed skeleton of stone, its once magnificent structures reduced to ruins. Those ruins had been built upon over the last few centuries by those who still clung to the old ways, believing their future might be saved by revering the past. Buildings planned by master craftsmen were now crooked parodies of their former glory. Walls once fashioned from square-cut granite were built over in timber and crudely shaped blocks. However, the city's original outline were retained.
Clothing
Upper Class City Dwellers
The general styles of clothing tend to differ depending on the era and social status. Regular lower class city dwellers tend to wear simple practical garments for the harsh desert lifestyle. The upper class city dwellers tend to wear loose flowing clothing with a lot of decorative gold jewelry on the feet, hands, head, or torso. Sun Disk symbols were and still are a prevalent motif in Shuriman clothing; common colors include gold, white, red, and emerald green.

Bone-Braces and Polearms : The Shakkal use these to vault towards their victims at terrifying speeds.
Claw Grips : Dormun-riders use claw grips to traverse the complex series of ropes that connect the mobile village's dwellings.
Currency
While the nation takes and uses all kinds of currency from all corners of Runeterra, it also mints its own currency. The main currency of Shurima is called Securi.[25]


Janna
Main article: Janna
“	  "The storm approaches."
—  Janna
An ancient and mysterious wind spirit, Janna has come to protect the dispossessed of  Zaun. Once known as Jan'ahrem, her power was once felt all throughout Shurima, with her aiding the vulnerable of the continent, especially those of the seafaring land of  Oshra Va'Zaun. During the rise of the Ascended and The Great Darkin War, her influence in Shurima remained constant, as she protected those most in need. In modern times, she protects the people of Zaun, those that believe in her the most, from the toxins that befall them constantly.

Rammus
Main article: Rammus
“	  "Ok."
—  Rammus
The enigmatic armordillo that roams the deserts of Shurima.  Rammus comes and goes, appearing to the people of Shurima at random, usually by accident, looking for food, or because of some other agenda. However, this hasn't stopped the people from creating wild theories about his origin, race, and goals. Some say he is harbinger of change, others say a god, and still others claim him to be a guardian of Shurima. Whatever the case, he will continue to roam the desert, and mystify all who come across him.

The Great Weaver
“	  "The Great Weaver says every lesson is a gift."
—  Taliyah
The Great Weaver is a Shuriman deity which weaves the lives and destinies of each individual and holds individual triumph into consideration, since even the smallest rock is important in weaving the larger tapestry of life. Belief in the Great Weaver started some time after the fall of Shurima and is widely practiced by nomads and shepherds.

The Immoral Fire
Main article: The Immortal Fire (Legends of Runeterra)
“	"For ages, the Immortal Fire flew alone, till one day she saw a young bird with fiery golden wings like hers. She rejoiced, for she had never known another like herself. But as years passed, the young bird grew old and flickered out. The Immortal Fire grieved, for she had never known death. And so she wept sparks and sighed herself ablaze, till she emerged, renewed in body but burdened with knowledge."
— Shuriman folk tale


Government
Rulers
Main article: Nobility#Shurima
Nobles
 AMUMU
Emperor
Timeworn accounts of Amumu depict him as sometimes a prince of vanity, or having been afflicted with a disease that corrupted flesh. A third story tells of the first and last Yordle ruler of Shurima, whom lived and died as a beggar hoping to make one true friend, and prove the goodness in the human heart.

AZRAHIR THELAMU
Hierophant
Former ruler of Vekaura before the events of Bloodline.
Scion of the Hawk Emperor, First Voice of Vekaura, the Illuminated One, He Who Walks in Light and Keeper of the Sacred Fire. Bringer of the Dawn.
Falsely claimed to be the descendant of  Azir.

DORRIK
Steward
A Noxian Steward currently occupying Bel'zhun. Has frequent issues with the Suns of Bel'Zhun rebels.

HADIYA NEDJEM
Hierophant
Hadiya rules the city of Zuretta, believing herself to be a descendant of Setaka, the ancient Queen of the Ascended Host.

IMA'SAI
Hazir
Former ruler of Bel'zhun before Noxus annexed the city.

 OMAH AZIR
Emperor
Resurrected Emperor of ancient Shurima turned Ascended. He resides at Shurimas original capital built upon The Sun Disc.

REYES
Councilman
A Councilman of the city of Kalamanda. House Medarda of Piltover knowns that they prefers Zaunite gifts during trade.

SADJA
Hagyett
Current ruler of Nashramae.

TA'FIK
Steward (Hagya)
They are currently allied with Noxus and the Steward of occupied Tereshni.

VALIF
Hagyos
Former ruler of Bel'zhun before Noxus annexed the city.

 XERATH
Emperor
The Ascended Xerath has proclaimed himself the new Emperor of Shurima and made the decayed city of Nerimazeth his capital.

ZIKKA TAUM'VIN
Steward (Hagyos)
They are currently allied with Noxus and the Steward of occupied Urzeris.

Tribes
There are numerous tribes scattered across the Shurima wastes, all of various notoriety. Some we only know by name include- the Barbae tribe, Kthaon tribe, Laaji tribe, Nasaaj tribe, Yesheje tribe, Zagayah tribe, etc.

Military
Shurima had a standing army before it fell. There were at least 10,000 elite warriors that guarded the emperor. When  Azir returned he summoned a vast army at his command. The soldiers, though made in the image of their predecessors, are constructs of sand and are not sentient. Nevertheless, the Emperor can count on some human soldiers, such as his Emperor's guard. There are also other golems of sands without a humanoid appearance that serve alongside soldiers of human form.[26]

Organizations
Cult of The Void
The Cult of The Void is a cult that first began when  Malzahar claimed that Runeterra will be ended by the Void. Many of its followers have surrendered themselves to this fate and simply do what is asked of them, including being used as a sacrifice to the Void. In the years since the cults formation, Malzahar's legend has spread even to the northern ports. As followers of “the Prophet” grow in number, nearby settlers are said to experience malefic visions grasping at their hearts, and fear gives rise to superstition—even the hardy villagers of the far wastes now make offerings of livestock to appease the voidling creatures below.

Disciples Of The Armordillo
The Disciples of the Armordillo is by far the only cult that does not have any detriments. The cult revolves around the legendary being known as  Rammus, whom they believe to be a god, Ascended, oracle, or something along those lines. Disciples yearly conduct ceremonies wherein they will imitate his famous roll, and somersault across their respective cities in droves. Many pilgrims roam the desert, in the hopes that they will find him and answer a single question. Knowing his cravings for sweets, they often fill all of their caravans with treats and sweets, usually finding their caravans exhausted of it all first thing in the morning.

Raiders
A Raider
The raiders of Shurima survive not through trade, but through violence. These bands of marauders often attempt to blend into the environment in order to lure unsuspecting travelers into traps before killing them, taking their belongings, and (in very rare cases) eating them.

Shakkal Raiders: These nomadic raiders are known for their agility, using hardened bone-braces and polearms to vault towards their victims at terrifying speeds.
Sandthrasher Raiders: These violent and bloodthirst raiders terrorize the deserts of Shurima wherever they can, either to steal from merchants or just to create bloodshed for fun. They respect strength and worship Renekton as their deity after he killed their leader, Sai-Surtha, in combat. They are also known for riding giant crocodilian mounts called Sauren.

Relations
 Ixtal
During ancient times, Ixtal was one of the first nations to join the Shuriman Empire. After the fall of Icathia, the Ixtali started to distance themselves from the Empire, completely isolating themselves by the time of the Darkin War and the later Rune Wars.

 Noxus
Noxian Presence in Bel'Zhun
A number of otherwise independent ports and cities in northern Shurima have voluntarily assimilated into Noxus. The original inhabitants of these settlements live in relative peace, seeing Noxian trade taxes as a price worth paying for military protection from raiders. By hiring Shuriman scavengers for a pittance and selling the artifacts they found to the occupying Noxians, some unscrupulous merchants grew very rich, very fast.

 Azir has now resurrected the ancient capital and has made his mission to revive the old Empire as well. Time will only tell as to what political relations Shurima and Noxus will have in this new political landscape.

 Piltover
Shuriman, mostly northern coastal cities, often trade with Piltovers wealthy clans. Clan Medarda had trade connections across multiple political connections with Shuriman city rulers across the clans history. Clan Ferros was the first Piltover clan to harvest brackern crystals for the creation of Hextech devices.

 Targon
Since its inception Shurima has had deep political and social ties with both Mount Targon and celestial Targon itself. The knowledge of how to create the first Ascended, the blueprints on how to create the Sun Disc, and the means to revert ascension, was given by Targonians.

During the Darkin War, Targonian Aspects aided Shurimans in both defeating and imprisoning the warring darkin.

 Zaun
During ancient times Zaun, or Kha'zhun, was an important trading port of the Empire. During the millennia and centuries after the Empires fall it slowly distanced itself politically and socially from the rest of Shurima. However Zaunites still follow some of their old Shuriman beliefs such as the worship of  Janna, an old wind spirit originating from Shurima.


Trivia
Shurima appears to have been inspired by Mesopotamia and Ancient Egypt.
The name Shurima resembles:
Šumeru, Akkadian rendition of Ki-en-ĝir "land of noble lords", Mesopotamia's first civilization, mirroring Shurima's pioneering status. However, ancient Sumer was nested within the well-watered & fertile floodplain, while Shurima is built near an oasis within a dry desert.
or Ancient Egyptian morpheme Šw, meaning "empty", "dry", "sunlight", or "rise up".[27] From this root stems Shu, the Egyptian god of Light & Air, son of Atum (originally the deified evening sun; in contrast to Khepri-morning and Ra-midday; however all three would later merge).
In Season Nine, the ranked emblems for the League system were redesigned. Shurima represents the emblem for the Gold rank.
The Emperor of Shurima had other titles such as the Golden Sun or Beloved of Mother Desert.
 Lissandra's biography & speech given in the Howling Abyss mention the Three Sisters, Lissandra, Serylda, and Avarosa had been born & been living even before Shurima's foundation, making them three even more ancient than all ancient Shuriman champions:  Azir,  Xerath,  Aatrox,  Varus,  Rhaast, etc.
Still, Shurima was one of the earliest Valoran's civilizations to ruin itself. Indeed, according to Scathlocke, Shurima fell 3000 years ago.[28]
For some, ancient Shurima was an Atlantis-like myth. Others, like the current inhabitants of Shurima, knew it existed a long time ago but did not believe any "true" Shurimans remained.  Renekton and  Nasus were also stories for them.[29]
Shurima's fall was recorded in a constellation by  Bard.
Almost all the names given to the Voidborn are ancient Shuriman in origin.[30]
 Ancient Coin,  Nomad's Medallion, and  Talisman of Ascension are Shuriman artifacts.[31]
Iconic Shuriman colors are Gold, Emerald Green, and Garnet Red.
Shurima's crest was inspired by the  Sun Disc.
With the resurrection of  Azir and the subsequent return of flowing rivers in Shurima.  The River King could possibly view this as a new market opening up for fresh deals with naive mortals.
When the capital of Shurima was swallowed beneath the desert, so had other cities suffer the same fate. In the millennia following, the remnants of those original civilizations have become feral troglodytes subsisting in lightless caverns. Rarely are they seen by those from the surface, unless stumbled upon by lost adventurers who discover these forsaken people.
As the map on universe is a rectilinear projection, places near the poles look bigger than they should in comparison to places near the equator. So Shurima looks about the same size as Valoran on the map, but that is misleading - it has a larger area.[32]

