This document contains information about Arcane.

Arcane (TV Series)

Broadcast Information
Produced
Riot Games Inc.
Studio
Fortiche Productions, Riot Games
Release Date(s)
Act 1: November 6, 2021
Act 2: November 13, 2021
Act 3: November 20, 2021[note 1]
Season 2: November 2024

Platform(s)
Netflix (Worldwide)
Tencent Video (China)
Audio Language
Subtitles
Genre
Television Series
Credits
Directed
Pascual Charrue & Arnaud Delord (Season 1)

Arcane (titled onscreen as Arcane: League of Legends) is an animated action-adventure series created by Christian Linke and Alex Yee for Netflix. Produced by Fortiche under the supervision of Riot Games, it is set in the  League of Legends  Arcane timeline[1][2], and focuses on several characters from the games, particularly  Vi and  Jinx. The series was first released in November 2021. A second season will be released in November 2024.


Description
Based on the world behind League of Legends, Arcane dives into the delicate balance between the rich, utopian city of  Piltover and the seedy, oppressed underground of  Zaun. Known across Runeterra as the "city of progress," many of the most brilliant minds call these cities home. But the creation of hextech, a way for any person to control magical energy, threatens that balance. The story follows the origins of two iconic League champions-and the power that will tear them apart. Like the game on which it is based, Arcane is aimed at a "16+" audience and will deal with some more adult subject matter.

VIDEO

ARCANE (TV SERIES)

Every legend has a beginning.

STARRING: AERO, AMARA, AMBESSA, BABETTE, BENZO, BILLINGSWORTH, BOLBOK, CAITLYN, CASSANDRA, CHROSS, CLAGGOR, DECKARD, EKKO, ELORA, FINN, GORGEOUS MAN, GRAYSON, HAROLD, HEIMERDINGER, HOSKEL, HUCK, JAYCE, JERICHO, JINX, JULES, LOCK, MARCUS, MARGOT, MEL, MYLO, PIM, REN, RENNI, SALO, SEVIKA, SHOOLA, SILCO, SINGED, SKY, SMEECH, THIERAM, TOBIAS, VANDER, VERNE, VI, VIKTOR, XIMENA

MENTIONED: TEEMO, WARWICK

This is a summarized list of contributions for the series. For an in-depth credit list, see each episode's page.
Main Cast[3]
Hailee Steinfeld as  Vi
Ella Purnell as  Jinx
Katie Leung as  Caitlyn
Reed Shannon as  Ekko
Mick Wingert as  Heimerdinger and Duty Captain
Kevin Alejandro as  Jayce
Toks Olagundoye as  Mel Medarda
Jason Spisak as  Silco and  Pim
Brett Tucker as  Singed and Sergeant  Billingsworth
J.B. Blanc as  Vander and  Bolbok
Harry Lloyd as  Viktor
Supporting Cast
Ellen Thomas as  Ambessa Medarda
Salli Saffioti as  Amara
Mira Furlan as  Babette
Fred Tatasciore as  Benzo and Master Crafter
Robin Atkin Downes as  Lock
Molly Harris as young  Caitlyn
Roger Craig Smith as  Claggor
Josh Keaton as  Deckard,  Salo, Customs Agent and  Gorgeous Man
Erica Lindbeck as  Elora
Miles Brown as young  Ekko
Miyavi as  Finn
Shohreh Aghdashloo as  Grayson
Bill Lobley as  Huck
Faustino Duran as young  Jayce
Mia Sinclair Jenness as  Powder
Mara Junot as  Jules,  Shoola and Female Enforcer
Imogen Faires as young  Mel
Remy Hii as  Marcus and  Tobias Kiramman
Abigail Marlowe as  Cassandra Kiramman, Lieutenant Eve and  Renni
Yuri Lowenthal as  Mylo, Thug #1, and Stall Holder
Joe Zieja as Punk and  Thieram
Sophia Jeffords as  Ren
Amirah Vann as  Sevika and Apothecary
Kimberly Brooks as  Sky Young
Dave B. Mitchell as  Verne,  Hoskel,  Harold, Warden, and various Enforcers
Edan Hayhurst as young  Viktor
Krizia Bajos as  Ximena Talis
Additional Voices
Jessica DiCicco
Scott Menville
Terri Douglas
Michael Ralph
Arthur Ortiz
Abigail Ludrof
Kari Wahlgren
Shelby Young
Series Producers[4]
Christian 'Praeco' Linke - Executive Producer and Co-Creator
Alex 'Skribbles' Yee - Co-Executive Producer and Co-Creator
Marc 'Tryndamere' Merrill - Executive Producer
Brandon 'Ryze' Beck - Executive Producer
Ash Brannon - Co-executive producer
Deni Grinds - Post producer
Series Writer
Conor 'fizzNchips' Sheehy
Series Production Management
Eric Bergman - Post-production supervisor
Alyssa Roberts - Production supervisor
Cassie Jo Dull - Production manager
Series Art Department
Jang Chol Lee - Visual development artist
Series Sound Department
Penny Harold - Re-recording mixer
Andrew Garrett Lange - Re-recording mixer
Series Special Effects
Can Yesilyurt - Special effects technician
Series Visual Effects
Rudyard Cretenet - Compositor
Philippe Lucini - Lighting artist
Nicolas Nepveu - Visual effects producer
Primault Quentin - Digital compositor
Kevin Vernet - Cfx artist: Fortiche
Series Animation Department
Maxime Delalande - Animator
John Clark - Head of layout
Series Casting Department
Terri Douglas - Adr voice casting
Series Music Department
Can Yesilyurt - Music editor
Series Script and Continuity Department
Graham 'Dinopawz' McNeill - Script writer
Kathy Cavaiola - Script supervisor
Series Additional Crew
Ethan Hubbert - Production coordinator
Episodes
For information about the Full episode list, see Arcane: Season 1.
The series currently has one season (9 episodes) with a second season in development.

Soundtracks
Main article: Arcane (Soundtrack)
Arcane currently has two soundtracks released for the series: Arcane: Original Soundtrack and Arcane: Original Score (divided into 3 Acts). These soundtracks were released on payed music sites such as Amazon Music, Spotify, as well as free on Youtube.

Development
Season 1
Pitched by Linke and Yee in around 2014-2015, everything from planning and starting up the project to the overall writing, production, and animation took around six years before its eventual release.[5][6][7][8] With this being the company's first foray into this media format, Riot Games decided to have Arcane developed internally and independently financed,[9] though initially through the collaboration of Linke and Yee with artists they've worked with before they began to receive more funding from Riot.[7]

Riot's then Global Head of Entertainment Businesses and Partnerships Jarred Kennedy worked with a creative team of writers (including Linke and Yee) in Los Angeles. The series was produced with and animated by Fortiche Productions, a French animation and creative production studio based in Paris that has worked with Riot on various videos for its champions in the past.[9] The voice actors came in early in the production process,[6][10] but majority of the main cast was only announced years later on September 21st, 2021.[11][12]

The series was announced on October 15th, 2019 as part of the League of Legends 10th anniversary celebrations,[9][13] with Riot Games' CEO Nicolo Laurent stating that they have plans for Arcane to have multiple seasons.[14] Original slated for a 2020 release,[9] the show was delayed to 2021 due to COVID-19-related difficulties.[15] On May 3rd, 2021, it was announced that the show has been picked up by Netflix for international release and by Tencent Video in China with a fall release date.[16][17] On September 25th, 2021, the release date for the first 3 episodes was revealed to be November 6th, 2021.[18]

Though the events of the series are heavily based on the established lore of the game, some differences have already been noted in the series. Creators Christian Linke and Alex Lee have shared that the changes are not necessarily retcons but are "adjustments in order to give [the viewers] the best story possible". Though working to make Arcane as consistent as possible with canon, as of 2021, he doesn't "think [they] would be considered a source of truth over the game", adding that they are taking into consideration the reaction of the fans, the current setup of Riot and its games, as well as the updates and changes to the characters.[19]

On January 29th, 2022, Thomas 'Wikingham' Cunningham, Senior Manager of Narrative Editing for League of Legends, would state in an interview with Polygon that "Their stories and their designs in Arcane are intentionally different from the Jayce and Viktor you see in-game, specifically to fit the show. So, it’s unlikely that we will make major changes to League of Legends’ Jayce and Viktor to match 1:1 with Arcane’s," when asked if any of these changes will eventually be consolidated into the game’s canon at large. Based on his response at the time,  Arcane and  League of Legends were separate entities, with the former drawing heavy influences from the latter, but ultimately deviating to better support the show.[20]

On February 16th 2023, Andrei 'Meddler' van Roon, the Head of League Studio, stated that Riot was going to be more "thoughtful" and "deliberate" about making a "consistent and cohesive wider Runeterran experience", in reference to the lore of League of Legends being inconsistent across different mediums.[21] When asked how this approach to narrative cohesiveness would affect Arcane, he noted that Riot wants to "get to a state where Arcane, LoL, LoR etc are all clearly building in the same canon".[22] On October 12th, 2023, Laura 'poisonpixxi' DeYoung, Head of IP Creative for Riot Games, elaborated on their new approach to narrative cohesiveness by explaining that there would be one shared canon moving forward and confirmed that Arcane was part of that canon.[23][24] Andrei van Roon would also note that the origin of hextech in Arcane would be the new origin going forward and champions related to it would be adjusted to match.

Season 2
Following the season's conclusion on November 20th, 2021, Riot Games and Netflix announced that a second season was in production.[25][26][27] On November 9th, 2023, Netflix announced that season 2 would premiere in November 2024 at Geeked Week 2023.[28] On November 12th, 2023, series co-creator Christian 'Praeco' Linke noted that a "song that everyone on the team absolutely LOVES for a particular scene" created by a "(very big) artist" was in production for the second season, however, because Riot cannot guarantee a marketing campaign that would elevate it above the other songs in the soundtrack, the record label would likely not allow them to use it.[29]

Marketing and Release
Season 1
Riot Games promoted the launch of Arcane through multiple events.

During the 2021  League of Legends Worlds Championship, the opening for the finale was Arcane themed. Several musicians such as Imagine Dragons, JID, Denzel Curry, Bea Miller, and PVRIS all performed through pre-recorded performances on stages that blended practical sets with digital effects. Two songs performed, "Welcome to the Playground" and "Enemy", would later reappear in the show.

Through RiotX Arcane, Riot promoted the show within their own games such as  League of Legends,  Legends of Runeterra,  Teamfight Tactics,  Wild Rift, and  Valorant.[30] They also did promotional collaborations with non-Riot games such as PUBG MOBILE[31], Fortnite[32], Among Us[33], and Magic: The Gathering[34].

Riot promoted the show with a Arcane themed cafe (with its own exclusive cafe merch) and art exhibition hall in South Korea.[35][36] It lasted a week before the global premiere of the show. Similarly, the show was promoted in cities like New York (US), Moscow (Russia), Rio de Janeiro (Brasil), and Dubai (UAE). This was done with Arcane billboards scattered across the city on buildings and advertisement covers on metro trains. In case of Dubai, the Burj Khalifa was lit up with an Arcane themed projections that lasted several minutes.[37]

Several Arcane themed murals popped-up in cities like: Barcelona (Spain)[38]; Gdynia, Katowice, Warsaw, Wrocław (Poland)[39]; Prague (Czechia)[40].

On November 6th, 2021, for the global premiere, Riot Games hosted a live event at their headquarters. Numerous actors from the show, show developers, Riot employees, and popular fan content creators were invited to participate in the premier of the first episode. Riot streamed this event and the first episode on Twitch. Some content creators were allowed to co-stream (as well as interview several Riot employees and co-creators of Arcane before the episode premiered[41]) the first three episodes of the series once they received permission from Riot Games, a first for a Netflix series, which also allowed viewers to retrieve in-game drops during the premiere.[42] Drops were only included in the games  League of Legends (Arcane Capsule),  Wild Rift ("A Single Tear" Emote),  Teamfight Tactics (Gizmos & Gadgets Little Legends Egg),  Legends of Runeterra ( "Fascinating" Emote), and  Valorant ("Fishbones" Gun Buddy).[43] The premiere received 1.8 million concurrent viewers on Twitch.

In conjunction with RiotXArcane, between the airing of Act 2 and Act 3, Riot hosted a live event called Undercity Nights.[44] During that event guests were able to enjoy their night in a bar created to resemble the Last Drop from the show.[45] The live event had a two-day broadcast, featuring live competitions from Riot's games as well as discussions from within a recreated Last Drop Office room. On both days of the broadcast was co-streamable to all content creators and watchable on Twitch and YouTube. A second chance to earn Twitch Drops from Arcane's Premiere were enabled during the broadcast of this event.[46]

Additional details about Chem-Barons companies were released on the Enter the Undercity live event site, which was tied to the Undercity Nights live party event.[47][48][49][50][51] During the Enter the Undercity event, several cosplayers were hired by Riot to play characters from the show, as well as others made for the event itself. Additionally, several previously unnamed characters from the show had their names revealed through this cosplaying event, such as the chem-baroness  Margot, and thugs  Aero and  Lock.[52]

Other marketing endeavors included an Arcane filter on TikTok,[53] a dance in Just Dance 2023 featuring Jinx and Playground by Bea Miller,[54][55] Arcane themed candy bars by Compartés Chocolatier,[56] and a partnership with Rihanna's Fenty Beauty line.[57]

The first season was released in three installments ("Acts") with 3 episodes each.[58] Episodes are roughly 40 minutes long.[59]

Reception
The show was critically acclaimed from critics and viewers alike.[60]

Accolades
27th Lumières Awards - Awards [61]
Best Episodic – Animation
Season - 1
49th Annie Awards - Awards [62][63]
Best TV/Media - General Audience[64]
Episode: When These Walls Come Tumbling Down
Best FX - TV/Media: Guillaume Degroote, Aurélien Ressencourt, Martin Touzé, Frédéric Macé, Jérôme Dupré[65]
Episode: Oil and Water
Best Character Animation - TV/Media: Léa Chervet[66]
Episode: The Monster You Created
Best Character Design - TV/Media: Evan 'Somnicidal' Monteiro[67]
Episode: Some Mysteries Better Left Unsolved
Best Direction - TV/Media: Pascal Charue, Arnaud Delord, Barthelemy Maunoury[68]
Episode: The Monster You Created
Best Production Design - TV/Media: Julien Georgel, Aymeric Kevin, Arnaud Baudry[69]
Episode: Happy Progress Day!
Best Storyboarding - TV/Media: Simon Andriveau[70]
Episode: When These Walls Come Tumbling Down
Best Voice Acting - TV/Media: Ella Purnell ( Jinx)[71]
Episode: When These Walls Come Tumbling Down
Best Writing - TV/Media: Christian Linke, Alex Yee[72]
Episode: The Monster You Created
69th Golden Reel Awards - Awards[73][74][75]
Sound Editing − Non-Theatrical Animation: Brad Beaumont, Eliot Connors, Alexander Temple, Shannon Beaumont, Alexander Ephraim, Dan O' Connell, John Cucci, Alex Seaver
Episode: When These Walls Come Tumbling Down
74th Primetime Emmy (2022) - Awards[76][77][78]
Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation: Anne-Laure To (Color Script Artist)
Episode: The Boy Savior
Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation: Julien Georgel (Art Direction)
Episode: Happy Progress Day!
Outstanding Individual Achievement in Animation: Bruno Couchinho (Background Designer)
Episode: When These Walls Come Tumbling Down
Outstanding Animated Program
Episode: When These Walls Come Tumbling Down
2nd Hollywood Critics Association TV Awards 2022 - Awards[79][80]
Best Streaming Animated Series or TV Movie
Season - 1
The Game Awards 2022 - Awards[81][82]
Best Adaptation Category
Season - 1
Trivia
Series co-creator, Christian 'Praeco' Linke, also composed  Vi and  Jinx's themes.
The show was named Arcane due to magic tying the world of Runeterra together, with every region and champion having a different relationship to it.[83]
The show was independently financed by Riot which, according to Jarred Kennedy, Riot's global head of IP businesses and partnerships, gave the studio “the creative oversight that we needed.”[84]
The series will be most appealing to those who are already familiar with the mythology of the game and want to further explore its roots. Riot co-founder Brandon 'Ryze' Beck told The Hollywood Reporter: “Originally, League started off with a bunch of characters and we threw them together really quickly. Over time, players became really attached to the characters and we wanted to build more of a universe around them [with Arcane].”
To promote the series,  League of Legends released a slew of new features in the Into the Arcane event, codenamed trueshot internally.

Episodes
No.	Title	Directed by	Written by	Original release date
Act 1
1	"Welcome to the Playground"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Christian Linke & Alex Yee	November 6, 2021
Sisters Powder and Vi find their parents dead among the bodies and the rubble of a battle on a bridge. They are taken in by Vander, the leader of the failed rebellion, as his own children. Years later, Vi and Powder rob a Piltover penthouse with their adopted brothers, Mylo and Claggor. Powder steals a set of magical crystals and accidentally shatters one. This causes an explosion that destroys a large portion of the building. Returning to the undercity, the siblings encounter Deckard and his thugs; while they beat them in a fistfight, Powder is chased and loses the loot. Vander, now a community leader in Zaun, scolds the children for their carelessness and attempts to smooth things over with Grayson, the Sheriff of the enforcers, and her subordinate Marcus. Vi berates Mylo for calling Powder a "jinx" and reassures her sister that things will get better. In the lowest parts of the undercity, crime lord Silco extracts information from Deckard and tests a new mutagen known as Shimmer on a rat together with Singed, a Zaunite scientist.
2	"Some Mysteries Are Better Left Unsolved"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Nick Luddington	November 6, 2021
The crystals that Powder stole turn out to belong to Jayce Talis, a student at Piltover's academy. Piltover's ruling council has him testify about using illegal equipment in unsanctioned experiments. As a child, Jayce was saved by arcane magic and believes it can be a new resource for Piltover's evolution. The academy expels him when he admits the magical nature of the experiments, and his research is ordered to be destroyed. On the verge of suicide, his beliefs are renewed when Viktor, the disabled assistant of the academy's Professor Heimerdinger, offers to help him. In Zaun, Marcus pressures Vander to reveal the true culprits of the robbery, while the Zaunites pressure him to fight back against the interference of the enforcers. He chooses to keep his family safe and remain neutral, leaving some unsure of his leadership. Vi decides to turn herself in. Meanwhile, Silco manipulates Deckard into swallowing a vial of Shimmer.
3	"The Base Violence Necessary for Change"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Ash Brannon	November 6, 2021
Vander stops Vi from turning herself in, offering himself to Grayson instead. However, Silco intervenes and captures Vander after a heavily mutated Deckard kills Grayson and her men, sparing only Marcus. Vi, Mylo, and Claggor go to rescue Vander, leaving Powder alone. In Piltover, Jayce and Viktor secretly work with the crystals under the discretion of councilor Mel Medarda and invent Hextech, a new arcane technology. It is revealed that Vander betrayed Silco in the past and tried to drown him. In the undercity, the siblings reach Vander but are cut off by Silco. Vi fights off Silco's thugs but is badly beaten by Deckard. In attempting to save her, Powder causes an explosion with the stolen crystals, killing Claggor and Mylo. Vander, wounded by Silco, takes Shimmer, kills Deckard, and saves Vi before dying. In her grief, Vi hits Powder, calls her a "jinx," and walks away. Seeing Silco approach Powder, Vi attempts to return to her but is ambushed and captured by Marcus. Believing Vi abandoned her, Powder breaks down in Silco's arms. He embraces Powder and tells her, "We'll show them all."
Act 2
4	"Happy Progress Day!"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	David Dunne	November 13, 2021
Several years later, Piltover prospers with Jayce's Hextech technology and celebrates its 200th anniversary on a holiday called "Progress Day." Jayce initially hopes to reveal his and Viktor's latest gemstone device at the ceremony but decides not to after Heimerdinger warns him of its potential dangers. Elsewhere, Powder, now a teenager going by the name of Jinx, works for Silco, who she views as a surrogate father. She helps him smuggle materials, mainly Shimmer, into Piltover. A job goes awry when the Firelights, an undercity gang, interfere. While fighting, Jinx briefly mistakes a Firelight for Vi and has a violent breakdown. Caitlyn, an enforcer and Jayce's childhood friend, investigates what happened. Attempting to repair her damaged reputation with Silco, Jinx steals Jayce's gemstone and sets off an explosion that kills six enforcers. Jayce is given a Piltover council seat to protect their people from the stolen gemstone. Looking for information, Caitlyn travels to Stillwater prison and encounters an adult Vi, who has been imprisoned there by Marcus.
5	"Everybody Wants to Be My Enemy"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Amanda Overton	November 13, 2021
Using forged paperwork, Caitlyn releases Vi from prison because of her knowledge of the undercity and works with her to find Silco. Vi tracks down Silco's second-in-command, Sevika, who reveals Jinx's relationship with Silco, a shock that allows Sevika to stab her. Meanwhile, it is revealed that Marcus was promoted to Sheriff with Silco's help. In exchange, Marcus allows Shimmer to be smuggled and blames the Progress Day bombing and robbery on the Firelights. Jinx refuses to work on the new Hextech gemstones because of the trauma of killing her family with a similar device. In response, Silco takes her to the river where Vander tried to drown him and tries to convince Powder to accept her new identity as Jinx via a baptism. Back in Piltover, Councilor Medarda starts a romantic relationship with Jayce while helping him navigate the complex political sphere he now finds himself in as a councilor. Meanwhile, Viktor's illness worsens, and he grows increasingly desperate to find a cure through Hextech technology.
6	"When These Walls Come Tumbling Down"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Alex Yee	November 13, 2021
After Viktor collapses in the lab from his illness, he and Jayce begin to study the "Hexcore," a new Hextech machine that reacts to organic matter and has the potential to cure it. Heimerdinger tries to have it destroyed due to its danger, prompting Jayce to orchestrate his removal from the council. Viktor approaches Singed, his childhood mentor, to help perfect the Hexcore. Silco, now aware of Vi's reappearance, orders Marcus to kill her and Caitlyn before they can resurface in Piltover. Marcus presents false proof that the Firelights were behind the attacks; Jayce orders a bridge blockade to protect Piltover. Jinx interrogates Sevika and learns of Vi's return. Vi and Caitlyn find a safehouse in the lowest slums of Zaun so Vi can recover from her fight with Sevika, but Silco finds them after bribing the local addicts with Shimmer. After escaping, the pair notice the blue smoke from a flare Vi gave Jinx before their ill-fated mission to rescue Vander years ago, and the sisters reunite. However, Caitlyn's presence triggers Jinx's mistrust. The Firelights intervene, steal the gemstone, and kidnap Caitlyn and Vi. Jinx, left behind, screams in despair.
Act 3
7	"The Boy Saviour"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Nick Luddington	November 20, 2021
The Firelights leader is actually Vi and Powder's childhood friend Ekko, now a gruff and battle-hardened warrior. After Vander's death, Silco took over the undercity and made the populace dependent on Shimmer; the Firelights have been leading efforts to thwart him and rehabilitate addicts. Ekko warns Vi that Powder is gone and only Jinx remains, something Vi refuses to accept. Meanwhile, Singed provides Viktor with a variant of Shimmer. Jayce's blockades increase unrest between the two cities. Viktor decides not to tell Jayce about using Shimmer to enable the Hexcore to modify his failing body after Jayce accidentally insults Viktor's undercity heritage. Caitlyn convinces Ekko to return the gemstone to Piltover, but Vi parts ways with them to find Jinx. Marcus stops Ekko and Caitlyn at the blockade, shoots Ekko, and prepares to kill Caitlyn. Seeing this, Vi runs back to help her. Envious of Caitlyn, Jinx detonates robotic insects on the bridge, killing Marcus and his enforcers. Ekko and Jinx face off as Vi and injured Caitlyn flee to Piltover. Ekko bests her in a fight but hesitates to deliver the final blow, allowing Jinx to detonate a grenade near them.
8	"Oil and Water"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Ben St. John & Mollie St. John	November 20, 2021
Silco finds the heavily injured Jinx in the explosion's aftermath and sees that she managed to steal back the gemstone. He takes her to Singed to heal her wounds. As Jinx endures Singed's treatment, she hallucinates that it is Vi and Caitlyn inflicting the pain. He injects her with Shimmer, turning her eyes violet. Meanwhile, Mel's mother arrives in Piltover following the assassination of Mel's brother and attempts to prepare her for the brewing war with Zaun. While trying to help the locals of Zaun, Heimerdinger encounters Ekko, who injured his leg escaping from Jinx's grenade. Meanwhile, Viktor succeeds in healing his body through the Hexcore and is able to run for the first time. However, further experimentation results in the death of his childhood friend and assistant, Sky. After failing to convince the council to intervene against Silco, Vi abandons Caitlyn and partners with Jayce to take down Silco's Shimmer factories. Armed with Hextech weaponry, they defeat a group of Shimmer-enhanced soldiers, but Jayce accidentally kills a child worker. After returning home, Caitlyn is kidnapped by Jinx.
9	"The Monster You Created"	Pascal Charrue & Arnaud Delord	Christian Linke & Alex Yee	November 20, 2021
The child's death makes Jayce realize the potential cost of intra-city war. He brokers a peace treaty with Silco, offering Zaun's independence in exchange for Jinx. Ekko reveals his hideout to Heimerdinger. Feeling guilty over the death of Sky, Viktor makes Jayce promise to destroy the Hexcore. Meanwhile, Silco laments choosing between Zaun and Jinx, who overhears him. After beating Sevika in a fight, Vi is abducted by Jinx. She, Silco, and Caitlyn awaken restrained in the warehouse where Vander died. Jinx gives Vi a pistol, telling her to choose between Caitlyn and herself. Vi refuses and appeals to her childhood memories, causing Jinx to suffer a traumatic attack. Silco breaks free and shoots at Vi but misses, and Jinx guns him down. Silco reaffirms his paternal love for her before dying. Jinx, distraught, finally accepts her new identity and acknowledges that she and Vi have diverged. Jinx weaponizes the gemstone into a rocket launcher and fires at the Piltover council as they approve Jayce's proposal to grant Zaun independence.



