This is a document about the world of Runeterra.

This is the source of this information: https://leagueoflegends.fandom.com/wiki/Runeterra

Runeterra (meaning magic earth) is a plane of existence composed of the physical realm: an oblate spheroid planet and the Spirit Realm. It is also the fictional world where most of the lore of the League of Legends intellectual property takes place. Runeterra is part of the larger Runeterra Prime universe. The currently known continents the planet comprises are Valoran, Shurima and the Camavoran Continent. It also boasts several large bodies of water, such as the currently known 18 Seas (like the Conqueror's Sea and the Guardian's Sea), and 2 Oceans with several archipelagos and islands around them (like Ionia, the Serpent Isles, and the Shadow Isles). The planet orbits around a G-type star while a natural satellite moon orbits around the planet. Runeterra's sun and moon also even mirrored equivalents in the spirit realm.

Nickname(s): Runeterra Crest icon Magic Earth

Demonym(s): Runeterran

Government(s): Various

Attitude towards magic: Magically Made

Level of technology: Various

Establishment history: Timeline

General environment(s): Continental

Universe(s): Runeterra Prime, Runeterra Legacy, Arcane

Lore
Composed of both the material and spirit realms, Runeterra is all that separates the celestial powers of creation from the abyssal threat of all undoing. This is a magical world unlike any other--inhabited by peoples both fierce and wondrous.

History

The Rune Wars
Centuries ago, magical artifacts called the 'World Runes' were rediscovered. Over the following decades, knowledge of the Runes began to spread as more were unearthed. The world's brightest minds studied the ancient glyphs, attempting to determine the powers they possessed. Few could even begin to understand the importance of their origins, or the sheer power held within them. Some surmised that the Runes were integral to the creation of Runeterra itself. The first use of these mysterious artifacts proved catastrophic, as they reshaped the landscape of entire nations. Mistrust quickly grew as those who knew of the Runes imagined such “Makers' Might” being used as a weapon. Conflicts related to these magical artifacts began to occur, known as the Rune Wars.

Open warfare raged across Runeterra. The first horrors of the Rune Wars sparked fear and aggression among those who now realized the power at their command. Ryze Ryze and his master, Tyrus, had sought out to lock away every World Rune beyond the reach of man for the protection of Runeterra. Some complied with their pleas, others dismissed them due to their new found powers and influence. After an incident with Tyrus, Ryze later on continued his journey alone in gathering all Runic artifacts so as to prevent another Rune War from starting and possibly destroying the world.

Magic
Magic plays an important part in the history and formation of Runeterra, much like the meaning of the world's name. The origins of magic on Runeterra can be traced back to the creation of the world when the World Runes shaped the planet and gave it life.

There are several types of magic that exist in the universe, primary and combined magics (unofficial names). The Void has no magic at all since it is nothingness. This information is not concrete canon and subject to change.

Species
There are many different species on Runeterra and the other connected realms. Most are divided into sapient, sentient, and non-sentient species.
Unlike Earth, Runeterra has a large number of sapient species. These sapient species can range from being able to use primitive tools to one's advantage to god-like feats like forging literal stars.

Some sentient species are monster-like and aggressive while others less aggressive or tame. While most sentient species are animals, there are instances of plant based sentient species.

Most known instances of non-sentient species are found with plants.

As rich and diverse as Runeterra is, not all species are well documented. From the Shuriman Jungles to the magic wilds of the Ionian Archipelago, known only by names or by visuals, these numerous species are an enigma.


Locations
There are many regions and settlements on Valoran, Shurima, Ionia, and Oceania. The current known locations represent the 1/6 of the entire map of Runeterra, mostly comprising areas in the north-north-west sextant, the rest of Runeterra remains largely unknown. The known areas are:
Physical Realm:

- Continents:
Arctic · Camavor · Shurima · Valoran

- Conqueror's Sea:
Aurma

- Guardian's Sea:	
Fallgren · Ionian Archipelago · Serpent Isles · Shadow Isles

- Ice Sea:
Glacial Prison · Ursine Lands

- Marai Territory:
Marai Village

Spirit Realm
Bandle City · Glade · Marus Omegnum · Mitna Rachnun

Celestial Realm
Constellations · Targon Prime

Beyond
Void Realm · Multiverse

Nations
Runeterra has vast number of nations and settlements each with their own form of governing structure

Countries:
Consists of all the nations that control large amounts of territory as well as a number of cities, towns, and villages. These nations may or may not have a centralized or a unified government.

Large Nations
 Bilgewater (Gang Syndicates)
 Demacia (Feudal Monarchy)
 Freljord (Tribal Matriarchy)
Ionia (Regional Provinces)
Ixtal (Mage Autocracy)
Noxus (Expansionist Empire)
Shurima (Divine Empire)
Targon (Tribal Theocracy)

Small Nations
Arbormark (Feudal Lorddom)
Aurma
Kalstead
Nockmirch (Feudal Lorddom)
Rijenland
Skaggorn (Tribal Chiefdom)

City-States:
Consists of all the nations that mostly control a city and some small land around it. These nations mostly have centralized and unified governments.
Boleham
Harelport
Holdrum
Kumangra
Mudtown
Palclyff
Piltover Crest icon Piltover (Aristocratic Oligarchy)
Stonewall
Zaun Crest icon Zaun (Industrial Oligarchy)

Other/Non-governed
Consists of all the nations that have no form of government or are previously governed nations that have since been left in ruin.
Bandle City
Blessed Isles (Former Meritocracy)
Camavor (Former Feudal Monarchy)
Icathia (Former Feudal Monarchy)
Shadow Isles

Religions
Religions in Runeterra are largely varied in every nation but several have been known to gather the most of followers:

Bluebird of the Sea: The worship of the spirit goddess of wind and change, Janna. This religion is largely celebrated in Zaun and its followers wear bluebird medallions. This religion likely gained force after Janna saved a great part of Zaun citizens from the excavation gone wrong, and is most popular among the poor denizens of the city.

Church of The Glorious Evolved: The Church is celebrated in both Piltover and Zaun. The Glorious Evolution, views of flesh as inferior to that of steel and metal, has gathered most of the followers among the people of Zaun and has spread among other nations. An amalgamation of flesh or the total replacement of it had marked his works, incorporating techmaturgy to purge the weakness and inefficiency of the flesh. For as long as they exist, the day of the world replaced by beings of weaponized steel and metal becomes clearer with each passing day. The church gathered fragments of Viktor's philosophy and see him as a messianic figure, but Viktor couldn't care less for them, viewing their quasi-religious cult as an aberration; another reason to eliminate emotional foibles and the belief in that which could not be empirically proven.

Demacian Pantheon: There are a multitude of deities worshiped in Demacia. Two of which is known The Sisters of Justice. The first sister is known as The Protector who represents the very appearance of the nation and inspired the nation's laws, traditions, and politics, and view her as a manifestation of hope, valor, perseverance, and justice. The second sister is known as The Veiled One, who embodies mercy and atonement while some view her as an embodiment of mystery and judgement: the Demacians pray the deceased find a safe passage to her shortly after death.

Eternals: Runeterra has a whole pantheon of deities, whose influence shaped many of the religions, ideologies, and myths across all of the modern Runeterran cultures. While the truths of these deities have been lost to the ages, all are still preserved in the celestial realm, shining down on the world through constellations and archetypes.

Freljordian Pantheon: There are a multitude of deities worshiped in Freljord. These deities are referred to as the Freljordian Demi-gods. These demigods are spirits who are depicted as as primal, anthropomorphic animals. Each one of them represents one or multiple phenomenon or ideas. Volibear depicts, for example, the Storm and the Wilds while  Ornn depicts the Forge and the Hearth.

Great Weaver: The worship of the goddess of fate. The Shurimans, being a nomadic and simple people, have prayed to her for guidance and help in their daily lives and needs, and give and protect those in her favor. She is said to weave the threads of each and every things' fate into a magnificent tapestry, designating what has been and what shall come to be. Taliyah, the Stoneweaver is said, by her tribe elders, to have been given her powers over earth by the Great Weaver herself.

Lamb and Wolf: For as long as its people have known death, Kindred has stalked Valoran. When the final moment comes, it is said a true Demacian will turn to Lamb, taking the arrow, while through the shadowed streets of Noxus, Wolf leads the hunt. In the snows of the Freljord, before going off to fight, some warbands 'kiss the Wolf', vowing to honor his chase with the blood of their enemies. After each Harrowing, the town of Bilgewater gathers to celebrate its survivors and honor those granted a true death by Lamb and Wolf. Kindred waits for those locked in the undeath of the Shadow Isles, for they know all will eventually fall to Lamb's bow or Wolf's teeth.The earliest dated appearance of the eternal hunters is from a pair of ancient masks, carved by unknown hands into the gravesites of people long-forgotten.

Lunari: The worship of the Moon. The religion spoke that the world needed balance between both sun and moon to live and thrive. However, it has long since been quashed from the world and history, most likely by the Solari's hand. The Lunari's return may come to pass through the crusade waged by  Diana, the Scorn of the Moon and an outcast by the Solari themselves.

Mother Serpent: The worship of the goddess of motion, Nagakabouros. Originating from the Serpent Isles, now known as the Blue Flame Islands, Nagakabouros still remains the reigning deity in Bilgewater. Her church is now led by her chosen Truth Bearer, Illaoi, the Kraken Priestess. The religion highly demands that you follow your desires, and make your own fate, one of the primary reasons why this faith's presence remains strong today.

Solari: The worship of the Sun as the source of all life. Solari worship is largely made up by a special sect of Rakkorians who surrender their mantles of war in favor of greater solar devotion. Their founder and leader chose Targon, being the highest peak closest to the Sun, and was blessed with the power to call down the sun's wrath. Currently,  Leona, the Radiant Dawn, has taken this legend's regalia and fights to protect the helpless and the innocent.

Runeterra also has a few cults: 

Cult of the Spider: The Cult has most of its followers located in Noxus and Demacia. The champion, Elise, serves as its High Priestess, traveling to and from between the two nations and the Shadow Isles, bringing her followers to live with the Spider God, Vilemaw, for eternity, or so they believe.

Cult of the Void: It is a cult that first began when Malzahar claimed that Runeterra will be salved by the Void. It's followers do sacrifices to the nothingness below, hoping that this keeps the holy fury of the Void in check.

Disciples of the Armordillo: It is by far the only cult that does not have any detriments. The cult revolves around the champion, Rammus, whom they believe to be a god, Ascended, oracle, or something along those lines. Disciples yearly conduct ceremonies wherein they will imitate his famous roll, and somersault across their respective cities in droves. Many pilgrims roam the desert, in the hopes that they will find him and answer a single question. Knowing his cravings for sweets, they often fill all of their caravans with treats and sweets, usually finding their caravans exhausted of it all first thing in the morning.

Frostguard: It has most of its followers located in Northern Freljord, with the Frostguard Citadel being its main center of worship. Followers pray and worship the three Iceborn sisters of old: Avarosa, Serylda, and Lissandra. Yearly, three warriors of the Frostguard are chosen to the Climb down the Howling Abyss to check in the runic prisons holding back the Watchers of any signs of melting and giving away.

Trivia 

The crest of Runeterra symbolically showcases the spheroid planet, with the stylized lines creating the visual representations of the Valoran and Shuriman continents.
The shape of the Runeterran continents were inspired by the real life Greek Peninsula. The names of several nations were also taken from the Greek language.
The name Demacia possibly puns on Greek δῆμος demos "people" and Latin decem "ten".
Demacia's namesake seems to be a Pre-Greek toponym, Δρυμαλία Drymalia, a former municipality of the island of Naxos.
The name Noxus resembles Pre-Greek toponym Νάξος.
There is a real life island called Naxos, which is part of modern-day Greece.
Noxus also references Latin noxa "harm, injury" or nox "night > darkness".
The name Ionia comes from the Ancient Greek Ἰωνία, after the tribal name Ia(w)ones Ἰά(ϝ)ωνες, with unclear etymology, possibly from:
PIE noun *wiH-s "force", whence Greek (ϝ)ī́s (w)is;
PIE verb *h₁eysh₂- "to push, to strengthen", whence ῑ̓ός īós "arrow".[6]
The real-life namesake is Ionia, after Ionian Greek colonists, located in Anatolia, now in modern-day Turkey.
There are also the Ionian Islands located at the western part of modern-day Greece.
There are numerous types of elemental magic, some named while others unknown. Elementalist universe mentions several elemental magics, some of which correspond with those of the Runeterra Map profileicon Runeterra Prime universe while others are currently unique to that Alternate Universe. Those mentioned are: Element of Air , Element of Dark , Element of Fire , Element of Ice , Element of Light , Element of Magma , Element of Mystic , Element of Nature , Element of Storm , Element of Water .

In the Arcane, the globe of Runeterra in Piltover Crest icon Piltover is significantly smaller in size compared to the suggested one in actual canon. The continents of Valoran and Shurima take up the entire northern and southern hemispheres, as oppose to only taking up the northern hemisphere in canon (the current canon map is only 1/6 of the size of the entire world). This is due to the fact that the inhabitants of the Valoran continents have not carried out an exhaustive exploration compared to real life, where Europeans have not carried out an exploration of the New World, claiming that their continent only exists from Europe and Africa to Asia before the exploration of Christopher Columbus.



