This document contains information about the Lunari.

Lunari

General Information
Leader(s)
 Cygnus (Military)
 Diana (Religious)
Type
Religious Order
Purpose
Venerate the Aspect of the Moon of Mount Targon
Status
Active
Political Relationships
Geopolitical Faction
 Targon
Related Faction(s)
 Solari ·  Rakkor ·  Marai Village ·  Sentinels of Light

 Lunari are an ancient organization and religious order which task is to venerate the Aspect of the Moon of Mount Targon.

Lore
The worship of the Moon. The religion spoke that the world needed balance between both sun and moon to live and thrive. However, it has long since been quashed from the world and history, most likely by the Solari's hand. The Lunari's return may come to pass through the crusade waged by  Diana, the Scorn of the Moon and an outcast by the Solari themselves.

Champions of the Lunari
Aphelios
Diana
Other Related Champions
 Alune is a Lunari seer and aids  Aphelios from the spirit realm.
 Leona is in search of  Diana.
 Nami is in search of  Diana.
 Pantheon, the Aspect of War interacted with the Lunari in the past.
 Zoe was a member of the Lunari.
Culture
Objects
Mythos
Weapons
Forbidden Weapons
1/7
The weapons mainly used by the Lunari are made of moonsilver, silver metal forged in moonlight which imbues with a touch of magic. Some of them are also made of moonstones which are super-rare stones from a piece of the moon that broke off and embedded in the mountain aeons ago and are evidently much more potent magically than moonsilver.

 Diana's blade was made of moonsilver for fighting, while  Aphelios' weapons were made of both moonstone and moonsilver and were more sculptural in nature - originally more like holy art pieces carved from the most sacred and precious material. His weapons were only refined and set into moonsilver brackets after Alune and Aphelios unlocked their potential as focuses for her magical power.[1]
Leadership
The Order
The Lunari
1/5
Branded by the Solari as heretics, the Lunari worship the silvery light of the moon. They practice their beliefs in secret, hiding from those who seek to rid Targon of their influence forever—even though some claim that, long ago, the two groups lived in peace, worshipping the heavens as one people.

The Lunari chart celestial movements to divine the future. Certain priestesses wear necklaces of mirrored moonglass, believing that reflections can reveal even greater truths. Some Lunari seers bind their eyes during the day, training their eyes to see only in darkness - for only under the pure light of the moon is truth revealed.

Members
Lunari Goddess
 The Silver Sister	Pressumed Goddess of the Lunari. Mother Moon of the order. Currently in the celestial realm.
Notable lunari members
 Alune	Member of the Lunari. Seer of the order. Currently in the spirit realm.
 Aphelios	Member of the Lunari. Warrior of the order.
 Cygnus	Military leader of the Lunari.
 Diana	Aspect Host of the Moon and the leading figure of the Lunari.
 Lyra	Member of the Lunari. Spy for the order. Currently in the celestial realm with her  Solari lover.
 Unnamed Lunari	Member of the Lunari.
 Unnamed Lunari	Member of the Lunari. Interprets the stars and constellations.
 Unnamed Lunari	Member of the Lunari. Enhances Lunari weapons with Duskpetals.
 Unnamed Lunari	Member of the Lunari. Priestess of the order.
Trivia
The sectarian names Solari & Lunari derive from Latin sol and luna.
The Solari's dismissive and disdainful attitude towards the Lunari possibly references the astronomical fact that the Moon does not emit any light, but only reflects the Sun's light.[3]
Unlike the Solari, the Lunari do not have any hatred or contempt for their counterparts, although they do not hesitate to defend themselves against them if necessary.


