This document contains information about the Rakkor.

Rakkor

General Information
Leader(s)
Unknown
Type
Tribe
Purpose
Honing their warrior skills to fight the "War at the End of the World"
Status
Active

Geopolitical Faction
Targon Crest icon Targon
Related Faction(s)
03MT082-full Solari · 03MT004-full Lunari

 Rakkor are the main tribal faction of Mount Targon. Both the  Solari and  Lunari religious orders originate from this tribe.

 Lore
Champions of the Rakkor
Aphelios
Diana
Leona
Pantheon
Zoe
Other Related Champions
 Aatrox fought against  Pantheon in the past.
 Aurelion Sol was controlled by  Zoe.
 Nami is in search of  Diana.
 Nasus interacted with  Myisha in the past.
 Rhaast fought against  Pantheon in the past.
Government
The Warriors
Life Among The Tribes
1/2
A name thought to mean “the Tribe of the Last Sun”, the Rakkor tribes boast many skilled artisans, craftspeople, and merchants—however, they tend to value a simple life of humility and prayer to the heavens.

Eking a living from mountain plants and their precious herds, the Rakkor tribe dwells at the very limits of human endurance; honing their warrior skills to fight the war at the end of the world. Rakkor means Tribe of the Last Sun, and its people believe that many worlds have existed before this one, each of which has been destroyed by a great catastrophe. Its seers teach that when this sun is destroyed there will be no more, so its warriors must be ready to fight those who seek to extinguish its light.

Rakkor priests teach that when their sun is destroyed, all will diminish into darkness, so its warriors must be ready to fight those who seek to extinguish its light. To the Rakkor, battle is an act of devotion, an offering to keep the sun's light shining. All members of the tribe are expected to fight and kill without mercy or hesitation. Rakkor warriors are trained not only to be as lethal with their bare hands as the most capable martial artists, but also to fiercely wield the many relic-weapons of the tribe.

While nearly all the Rakkor worship the sun, those who devote their lives to the religion are known as the Solari. Those known as the Lunari secretly worship the light of the moon. They keep their beliefs hidden from the Solari, who greatly outnumber them and see them as dangerous heretics. Though it will do nothing to bring back the countless Lunari slain by Solari over the years, it seems the balance of power in Targon may be shifting, as rumors abound that the  Aspect of the Moon has taken mortal form once more...

Trivia
Rakkor, Tribe of the Last Sun, is based on Egyptian theonym Ra.
The name of the Kor leader, Jagen, means "to hunt" in German and Dutch.
 Kayle and  Morgana's parents were from one of the tribes on  Mount Targon, an earlier version of the Rakkor.[1]
