This document contains information about the Solari.

Solari

General Information
Leader(s)
 Rahvun (Military)
 Leona (Religious)
Type
Religious Order
Purpose
Venerate the Aspect of the Sun of Mount Targon
Status
Active
Political Relationships
Geopolitical Faction
 Targon
Related Faction(s)
 Lunari ·  Rakkor

 Solari are an ancient organization and religious order which task is to venerate the Aspect of the Sun of Mount Targon.


Lore
The worship of the Sun as the source of all life. Solaric worship is largely made up by a special sect of Rakkorians who surrender their mantles of war in favor of greater solar devotion. Their founder and leader chose Mount Targon, being the highest peak closest to the Sun, and was blessed with the power to call down the sun's wrath. Currently,  Leona, the Radiant Dawn, has taken this legend's regalia and fights to protect the helpless and the innocent.

Champions of the Solari
Leona
Other Related Champions
 Aphelios has killed multiple Solari as warrior of the  Lunari.
 Diana was a member persecuted by the Solari.
 Pantheon was a member of the Solari.
Culture
Mythos
Hymn of the Hour
The Hymn of the Hour tells the story of  The Golden Sister and  The Silver Sister.

"From the heavens,
Two beings came,
One was robed in silver's glow,
The other clad in golden flame,
Though both were formed of cosmic light,
They fought, for they were too alike,
And so these two split night from day,
So each could always have their way."

The Charger
Main article: The Charger (Legends of Runeterra)
“	"The gold of the sun adorns his horns, and its fire lights his heart. Let the thunder of our shields ring out like the thunder of his hooves across the horizon!"
— Solari battle prayer
Leadership
The Order
The Solari 1
1/6
While nearly all Rakkor worship the sun, those who completely devote their lives to it are known as the Solari. As the dominant religious sect on Mount Targon, they believe the sun is the source of all life—all other light sources are false, and a threat to the future of their people. Disciples are guided in the strictures of their faith by temple priests, who preach that if the sun was ever to fade, the world would be swallowed by darkness. Accordingly, the Solari stand ready to fight any who would extinguish its holy light.

The Ra'Horak - a Rakkor title which means Followers of the Horizon - honed their already fearsome skills with a blade into something sublime. As Elite warriors of the Solari, they practice for years under the harshest conditions. Believe to be blessed with the strength and virility of the sun, they train themselves to be less susceptible to the cold. According to legend, the Solari were formed by a warrior who could call the raw might of the sun down upon his enemies in combat. They claimed Mount Targon's summit, the point on Runeterra closest to the sun, for their solar devotion, a tradition which generations of Solari have preserved to this day.

Though they maintain their reverence, no other warrior possessed the gifts of the founder – until  Leona, the Radiant Dawn. The Solari elders claimed Leona from the Rakkor tribe and assisted in focusing her abilities. With her pursuit of the heretic  Diana at the very peak of Mount Targon, she was imbued by terrifying power and forgotten knowledge from the earliest epochs of the world. Her armor and weapons burned to ash in the cosmic fire and were in turn reborn as ornate warplate, a shield of sunlight wrought in gold and a sword of chained dawnlight.

Scribes and acolytes sometimes spend the winter months sheltering in the relative warmth of the Solari temples, conducting divine rituals to call upon the power of the sun and charting the movements of the stars. During times of strife, a Solari priest might meditate in the outermost sanctum for weeks without food or water, subsisting merely on the divine sustenance of the sun, the source of all life.

Members
Solari Goddess
 The Golden Sister	Pressumed Goddess of the Solari. Currently in the celestial realm.
Notable solari members
 Atreus	Former member of the Solari. Became the Aspect Host of War (Pantheon).
 Leona	Aspect Host of the Sun and the leading figure of the Solari.
 Diana	Former member of the Solari. Defected after climbing the mountain and becoming the Aspect of the Moon.
Pylas	Former member of the Solari. Climbed the mountain alongside Atreus. (Deceased)
 Rahvun, Daylight's Spear	Military leader of the Solari's Ra'Horak.
 Solari Shieldbearer	Member of the Solari. Guards Solari controlled areas.
 Solari Soldier	Former member of the Solari. Guarded the Solari prisons. Currently in the celestial realm with his  Lunari lover.
 Solari Priestess	Member of the Solari. Priestess of the order.
 Solari Sentinel	Member of the Solari. Sentinel of Light.
Trivia
The sectarian names Solari & Lunari derive from Latin sol and luna.
The Solari's dismissive and disdainful attitude towards the Lunari possibly references the astronomical fact that the Moon does not emit any light, but only reflects the Sun's light.[1]
The title Ra-Horak derives from Egyptian Ra-Horakhty "Ra-Horus of the Horizons".


