This document contains information about the Harrowing.

Harrowing

The Harrowing is an event and a force of the undead that attacks all across Runeterra, wherever the living might reside. It started some time after the Ruination and has been a constant threat to the living ever since.



History
Beyond The Isles

The Shadow Isles were once a beautiful realm, long since shattered by a magical cataclysm. Now, Black Mist permanently shrouds the land, tainting and corrupting with its malevolent sorcery. Those who perish within it are condemned to become part of it for all eternity… and worse still, each year the Mist extends its grasp to reap more souls across Runeterra.

At times, the Black Mist reaches across the seas — and the spirits of the dead go with it. The Harrowing strikes most frequently in Bilgewater. Those slain by the spirits during the Harrowing are damned, their souls dragged back to the Shadow Isles when the Black Mist retreats.

While weaker spirits may only be able to manifest during a Harrowing, more powerful entities can always do so, sometimes even venturing beyond the Shadow Isles.

When  Viego returned to Runeterra, he unleashed multiple harrowings with the aid of Vex in search of the fetters of Queen  Isolde's sold. His harrowings would corrupt not only people and animals, but the very land as well.

Relations
 Bilgewater
Being closest to the Shadow Isles, the island pirate nation of Bilgewater has the most frequent harrowing attacks out of all Runeterran regions and as such their entire culture has been shaped to react to the event. The serpent callers summon beasts to fight the undead. The undertakers chain up dead bodies in floating cemeteries so as to prevent them from joining the undead ranks. The priests of Nagakabourous have also been seen fighting the Black Mist, even proving successful at it. A harrowing in Bilgewater convinced  Miss Fortune to give  Viego a brass bell in exchange for power to defeat her rivals.
 Blessed Isles
Those that survived the ruination have dedicated their entire lives and culture in fighting the undead and the Black Mist. Known as the  Sentinels of Light, these warriors are tasked at tracking down the Black Mist in hopes to one day put an end to it. Some treants that survived the Ruination also have a desire to restore the Blessed Isles.
 Demacia
The Demacian  Dauntless Vanguard and the  Illuminators have been seen fighting and defending the living from several harrowings.  Poppy and  Vayne repelled a harrowing outside of the great city of Demacia caused by Viego. A second harrowing would corrupt  Shyvana and allowed Viego to reclaim a handheld mirror from the Mageseeker's vaults.
 Freljord
A harrowing in the Freljord allowed Vex to reclaim an ivory comb from a glacier for  Viego.
 Ionia
The Ionian southern lands has been targeted by several harrowings, especially the island province of Zhyun.  Karma repelled a harrowing at the Lasting Altar caused by Viego and an attempt at possession. A second harrowing would corrupt  Karma and the land of Ionia and allowed Viego to reclaim a silver rose from the Grove of the Ancients.
 Ixtal
A harrowing in Ixtal allowed  Thresh to bargain information with the Sentinels in exchange for a jade mask for  Viego.
 Noxus
The Trifarian Legion and  Samira repelled a harrowing in the middle of the Immortal Bastion caused by Viego, but not before  Darius was possessed. A second harrowing would corrupt  Draven and allowed Viego to reclaim a wine flagon from the chambers of the Black Rose.
 Piltover &  Zaun
A harrowing in Piltover & Zaun allowed Vex to steal a parasol from  Graves and the Sentinels.
 Targon
A harrowing in Targon allowed  Viego to resurrect  Pantheon and reclaim copper sundial from the peak of Targon.
